
ON THE ARTS AND SCIENCES TO BE STUDIED.


Man should study the Kama Sutra and the arts and sciences subordinate
thereto, in addition to the study of the arts and sciences contained in
Dharma and Artha. Even young maids should study this Kama Sutra along
with its arts and sciences before marriage, and after it they should
continue to do so with the consent of their husbands.

Here some learned men object, and say that females, not being allowed to
study any science, should not study the Kama Sutra.

But Vatsyayana is of opinion that this objection does not hold good, for
women already know the practice of Kama Sutra, and that practice is
derived from the Kama Shastra, or the science of Kama itself. Moreover,
it is not only in this but in many other cases that though the practice
of a science is known to all, only a few persons are acquainted with the
rules and laws on which the science is based. Thus the Yadnikas or
sacrificers, though ignorant of grammar, make use of appropriate words
when addressing the different Deities, and do not know how these words
are framed. Again, persons do the duties required of them on auspicious
days, which are fixed by astrology, though they are not acquainted with
the science of astrology. In a like manner riders of horses and
elephants train these animals without knowing the science of training
animals, but from practice only. And similarly the people of the most
distant provinces obey the laws of the kingdom from practice, and
because there is a king over them, and without further reason.[11] And
from experience we find that some women, such as daughters of princes
and their ministers, and public women, are actually versed in the Kama
Shastra.

A female, therefore, should learn the Kama Shastra, or at least a part
of it, by studying its practice from some confidential friend. She
should study alone in private the sixty-four practices that form a part
of the Kama Shastra. Her teacher should be one of the following persons,
viz., the daughter of a nurse brought up with her and already
married,[12] or a female friend who can be trusted in everything, or the
sister of her mother (_i.e._, her aunt), or an old female servant, or a
female beggar who may have formerly lived in the family, or her own
sister, who can always be trusted.

The following are the arts to be studied, together with the Kama
Sutra:--

1. Singing.

2. Playing on musical instruments.

3. Dancing.

4. Union of dancing, singing, and playing instrumental music.

5. Writing and drawing.

6. Tattooing.

7. Arraying and adorning an idol with rice and flowers.

8. Spreading and arraying beds or couches of flowers, or flowers upon
the ground.

9. Colouring the teeth, garments, hair, nails, and bodies, _i.e._,
staining, dyeing, colouring and painting the same.

10. Fixing stained glass into a floor.

11. The art of making beds, and spreading out carpets and cushions for
reclining.

12. Playing on musical glasses filled with water.

13. Storing and accumulating water in aqueducts, cisterns and
reservoirs.

14. Picture making, trimming and decorating.

15. Stringing of rosaries, necklaces, garlands and wreaths.

16. Binding of turbans and chaplets, and making crests and top-knots of
flowers.

17. Scenic representations. Stage playing.

18. Art of making ear ornaments.

19. Art of preparing perfumes and odours.

20. Proper disposition of jewels and decorations, and adornment in
dress.

21. Magic or sorcery.

22. Quickness of hand or manual skill.

23. Culinary art, _i.e._, cooking and cookery.

24. Making lemonades, sherbets, acidulated drinks, and spirituous
extracts with proper flavour and colour.

25. Tailor's work and sewing.

26. Making parrots, flowers, tufts, tassels, bunches, bosses, knobs,
&c., out of yarn or thread.

27. Solution of riddles, enigmas, covert speeches, verbal puzzles and
enigmatical questions.

28. A game, which consisted in repeating verses, and as one person
finished, another person had to commence at once, repeating another
verse, beginning with the same letter with which the last speaker's
verse ended, whoever failed to repeat was considered to have lost, and
to be subject to pay a forfeit or stake of some kind.

29. The art of mimicry or imitation.

30. Reading, including chanting and intoning.

31. Study of sentences difficult to pronounce. It is played as a game
chiefly by women and children, and consists of a difficult sentence
being given, and when repeated quickly, the words are often transposed
or badly pronounced.

32. Practice with sword, single stick, quarter staff, and bow and arrow.

33. Drawing inferences, reasoning or inferring.

34. Carpentry, or the work of a carpenter.

35. Architecture, or the art of building.

36. Knowledge about gold and silver coins, and jewels and gems.

37. Chemistry and mineralogy.

38. Colouring jewels, gems and beads.

39. Knowledge of mines and quarries.

40. Gardening; knowledge of treating the diseases of trees and plants,
of nourishing them, and determining their ages.

41. Art of cock fighting, quail fighting and ram fighting.

42. Art of teaching parrots and starlings to speak.

43. Art of applying perfumed ointments to the body, and of dressing the
hair with unguents and perfumes and braiding it.

44. The art of understanding writing in cypher, and the writing of words
in a peculiar way.

45. The art of speaking by changing the forms of words. It is of various
kinds. Some speak by changing the beginning and end of words, others by
adding unnecessary letters between every syllable of a word, and so on.

46. Knowledge of language and of the vernacular dialects.

47. Art of making flower carriages.

48. Art of framing mystical diagrams, of addressing spells and charms,
and binding armlets.

49. Mental exercises, such as completing stanzas or verses on receiving
a part of them; or supplying one, two or three lines when the remaining
lines are given indiscriminately from different verses, so as to make
the whole an entire verse with regard to its meaning; or arranging the
words of a verse written irregularly by separating the vowels from the
consonants, or leaving them out altogether; or putting into verse or
prose sentences represented by signs or symbols. There are many other
such exercises.

50. Composing poems.

51. Knowledge of dictionaries and vocabularies.

52. Knowledge of ways of changing and disguising the appearance of
persons.

53. Knowledge of the art of changing the appearance of things, such as
making cotton to appear as silk, coarse and common things to appear as
fine and good.

54. Various ways of gambling.

55. Art of obtaining possession of the property of others by means of
muntras or incantations.

56. Skill in youthful sports.

57. Knowledge of the rules of society, and of how to pay respects and
compliments to others.

58. Knowledge of the art of war, of arms, of armies, &c.

59. Knowledge of gymnastics.

60. Art of knowing the character of a man from his features.

61. Knowledge of scanning or constructing verses.

62. Arithmetical recreations.

63. Making artificial flowers.

64. Making figures and images in clay.

A public woman, endowed with a good disposition, beauty and other
winning qualities, and also versed in the above arts, obtains the name
of a Ganika, or public woman of high quality, and receives a seat of
honour in an assemblage of men. She is, moreover, always respected by
the king, and praised by learned men, and her favour being sought for by
all, she becomes an object of universal regard. The daughter of a king
too, as well as the daughter of a minister, being learned in the above
arts, can make their husbands favourable to them, even though these may
have thousands of other wives besides themselves. And in the same
manner, if a wife becomes separated from her husband, and falls into
distress, she can support herself easily, even in a foreign country, by
means of her knowledge of these arts. Even the bare knowledge of them
gives attractiveness to a woman, though the practice of them may be only
possible or otherwise according to the circumstances of each case. A man
who is versed in these arts, who is loquacious and acquainted with the
arts of gallantry, gains very soon the hearts of women, even though he
is only acquainted with them for a short time.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 11: The author wishes to prove that a great many things are
done by people from practice and custom, without their being acquainted
with the reason of things, or the laws on which they are based, and this
is perfectly true.]

[Footnote 12: The proviso of being married applies to all the teachers.]



