
OF THE WAY HOW TO BEGIN AND HOW TO END THE CONGRESS.

DIFFERENT KINDS OF CONGRESS AND LOVE QUARRELS.


In the pleasure-room, decorated with flowers, and fragrant with
perfumes, attended by his friends and servants, the citizen should
receive the woman, who will come bathed and dressed, and will invite her
to take refreshment and to drink freely. He should then seat her on his
left side, and holding her hair, and touching also the end and knot of
her garment, he should gently embrace her with his right arm. They
should then carry on an amusing conversation on various subjects, and
may also talk suggestively of things which would be considered as
coarse, or not to be mentioned generally in society. They may then sing,
either with or without gesticulations, and play on musical instruments,
talk about the arts, and persuade each other to drink. At last when the
woman is overcome with love and desire, the citizen should dismiss the
people that may be with him, giving them flowers, ointment, and betel
leaves, and then when the two are left alone, they should proceed as has
been already described in the previous chapters.

Such is the beginning of sexual union. At the end of the congress, the
lovers with modesty, and not looking at each other, should go separately
to the washing-room. After this, sitting in their own places, they
should eat some betel leaves, and the citizen should apply with his own
hand to the body of the woman some pure sandal wood ointment, or
ointment of some other kind. He should then embrace her with his left
arm, and with agreeable words should cause her to drink from a cup held
in his own hand, or he may give her water to drink. They can then eat
sweetmeats, or anything else, according to their likings, and may drink
fresh juice,[40] soup, gruel, extracts of meat, sherbet, the juice of
mangoe fruits, the extract of the juice of the citron tree mixed with
sugar, or anything that may be liked in different countries, and known
to be sweet, soft, and pure. The lovers may also sit on the terrace of
the palace or house, and enjoy the moonlight, and carry on an agreeable
conversation. At this time, too, while the woman lies in his lap, with
her face towards the moon, the citizen should show her the different
planets, the morning star, the polar star, and the seven Rishis, or
Great Bear.

This is the end of sexual union.

Congress is of the following kinds, viz.:

   Loving congress.
   Congress of subsequent love.
   Congress of artificial love.
   Congress of transferred love.
   Congress like that of eunuchs.
   Deceitful congress.
   Congress of spontaneous love.

(1). When a man and a woman, who have been in love with each other for
some time, come together with great difficulty, or when one of the two
returns from a journey, or is reconciled after having been separated on
account of a quarrel, then congress is called the "loving congress." It
is carried on according to the liking of the lovers, and as long as they
choose.

(2). When two persons come together, while their love for each other is
still in its infancy, their congress is called the "congress of
subsequent love."

(3). When a man carries on the congress by exciting himself by means of
the sixty-four ways, such as kissing, etc., etc., or when a man and a
woman come together, though in reality they are both attached to
different persons, their congress is then called "congress of artificial
love." At this time all the ways and means mentioned in the Kama Shastra
should be used.

(4). When a man, from the beginning to the end of the congress, though
having connection with the women, thinks all the time that he is
enjoying another one whom he loves, it is called the "congress of
transferred love."

(5). Congress between a man and a female water carrier, or a female
servant of a caste lower than his own, lasting only until the desire is
satisfied, is called "congress like that of eunuchs." Here external
touches, kisses, and manipulations are not to be employed.

(6). The congress between a courtezan and a rustic, and that between
citizens and the women of villages, and bordering countries, is called,
"deceitful congress."

(7). The congress that takes place between two persons who are attached
to one another, and which is done according to their own liking is
called "spontaneous congress."

Thus ends the kinds of congress.

We shall now speak of love quarrels.

A woman who is very much in love with a man cannot bear to hear the name
of her rival mentioned, or to have any conversation regarding her, or to
be addressed by her name through mistake. If such takes place, a great
quarrel arises, and the woman cries, becomes angry, tosses her hair
about, strikes her lover, falls from her bed or seat, and, casting aside
her garlands and ornaments, throws herself down on the ground.

At this time, the lover should attempt to reconcile her with
conciliatory words, and should take her up carefully and place her on
her bed. But she, not replying to his questions, and with increased
anger, should bend down his head by pulling his hair, and having kicked
him once, twice, or thrice on his arms, head, bosom or back, should then
proceed to the door of the room. Dattaka says that she should then sit
angrily near the door and shed tears, but should not go out, because she
would be found fault with for going away. After a time, when she thinks
that the conciliatory words and actions of her lover have reached their
utmost, she should then embrace him, talking to him with harsh and
reproachful words, but at the same time showing a loving desire for
congress.

When the woman is in her own house, and has quarrelled with her lover,
she should go to him and show how angry she is, and leave him.
Afterwards the citizen having sent the Vita,[41] the Vidushaka[41] or
the Pithamurda[41] to pacify her, she should accompany them back to the
house, and spend the night with her lover.

Thus end the love quarrels.

In conclusion.

A man, employing the sixty-four means mentioned by Babhravya, obtains
his object, and enjoys the woman of the first quality. Though he may
speak well on other subjects, if he does not know the sixty-four
divisions, no great respect is paid to him in the assembly of the
learned. A man, devoid of other knowledge, but well acquainted with the
sixty-four divisions, becomes a leader in any society of men and women.
What man will not respect the sixty-four parts,[42] considering they are
respected by the learned, by the cunning, and by the courtezans. As the
sixty-four parts are respected, are charming, and add to the talent of
women, they are called by the Acharyas dear to women. A man skilled in
the sixty-four parts is looked upon with love by his own wife, by the
wives of others, and by courtezans.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 40: The fresh juice of the cocoa nut tree, the date tree, and
other kinds of palm trees are drunk in India. It will not keep fresh
very long, but ferments rapidly, and is then distilled into liquor.]

[Footnote 41: The characteristics of these three individuals have been
given in Part I. page 31.]

[Footnote 42: A definition of the sixty-four parts, or divisions, is
given in Chapter II., page 45.]

=END OF PART II.=




PART III.

ABOUT THE ACQUISITION OF A WIFE.



