
ABOUT THE LOVE OF PERSONS IN AUTHORITY FOR THE WIVES OF OTHER MEN.


Kings and their ministers have no access to the abodes of others, and
moreover their mode of living is constantly watched and observed and
imitated by the people at large, just as the animal world, seeing the
sun rise, get up after him, and when he sits in the evening, lie down
again in the same way. Persons in authority should not therefore do any
improper act in public, as such are impossible from their position, and
would be deserving of censure. But if they find that such an act is
necessary to be done, they should make use of the proper means as
described in the following paragraphs.

The head man of the village, the King's officer employed there, and the
man[63] whose business it is to glean corn, can gain over female
villagers simply by asking them. It is on this account that this class
of woman are called unchaste women by voluptuaries.

The union of the above mentioned men with this class of woman takes
place on the occasions of unpaid labour, of filling the granaries in
their houses, of taking things in and out of the house, of cleaning the
houses, of working in the fields, and of purchasing cotton, wool, flax,
hemp, and thread, and at the season of the purchase, sale, and exchange
of various other articles, as well as at the time of doing various other
works. In the same way the superintendents of cow pens enjoy the women
in the cow pens; and the officers, who have the superintendence of
widows, of the women who are without supporters, and of women who have
left their husbands, have sexual intercourse with these women. The
intelligent accomplish their object by wandering at night in the
village, and while villagers also unite with the wives of their sons,
being much alone with them. Lastly the superintendents of markets have a
great deal to do with the female villagers at the time of their making
purchases in the market.

During the festival of the eighth moon, _i.e._, during the bright half
of the month of Nargashirsha, as also during the moonlight festival of
the month of Kartika, and the spring festival of Chaitra, the women of
cities and towns generally visit the women of the King's harem in the
royal palace. These visitors go to the several apartments of the women
of the harem, as they are acquainted with them, and pass the night in
conversation, and in proper sports, and amusement, and go away in the
morning. On such occasions a female attendant of the King (previously
acquainted with the woman whom the King desires), should loiter about,
and accost this woman when she sets out to go home, and induce her to
come and see the amusing things in the palace. Previous to these
festivals even, she should have caused it to be intimated to this woman
that on the occasion of this festival she would show her all the
interesting things in the royal palace. Accordingly she should show her
the bower of the coral creeper, the garden house with its floor inlaid
with precious stones, the bower of grapes, the building on the water,
the secret passages in the walls of the palace, the pictures, the
sporting animals, the machines, the birds, and the cages of the lions
and the tigers. After this, when alone with her, she should tell her
about the love of the King for her, and should describe to her the good
fortune which would attend upon her union with the King, giving her at
the time a strict promise of secrecy. If the woman does not accept the
offer, she should conciliate and please her with handsome presents
befitting the position of the King, and having accompanied her for some
distance should dismiss her with great affection.

(2). Or, having made the acquaintance of the husband of the woman whom
the King desires, the wives of the King should get the wife to pay them
a visit in the harem, and on this occasion a female attendant of the
King, having been sent thither, should act as above described.

(3). Or, one of the King's wives should get acquainted with the woman
that the King desires, by sending one of the female attendants to her,
who should, on their becoming more intimate, induce her to come and see
the royal abode. Afterwards, when she has visited the harem, and
acquired confidence, a female confidante of the King, sent thither,
should act as before described.

(4). Or, the King's wife should invite the woman, whom the King desires,
to come to the royal palace, so that she might see the practice of the
art in which the King's wife may be skilled, and after she has come to
the harem, a female attendant of the King, sent thither, should act as
before described.

(5). Or, a female beggar, in league with the King's wife, should say to
the woman desired by the King, and whose husband may have lost his
wealth, or may have some cause of fear from the King: "This wife of the
King has influence over him, and she is, moreover, naturally
kind-hearted, we must therefore go to her in this matter. I shall
arrange for your entrance into the harem, and she will do away with all
cause of danger and fear from the King." If the woman accepts this
offer, the female beggar should take her two or three times to the
harem, and the King's wife there should give her a promise of
protection. After this, when the woman, delighted with her reception and
promise of protection, again goes to the harem, then a female attendant
of the King, sent thither, should act as directed.

(6). What has been said above regarding the wife of one who has some
cause of fear from the King applies also to the wives of those who seek
service under the King, or who are oppressed by the King's ministers, or
who are poor, or who are not satisfied with their position, or who are
desirous of gaining the King's favour, or who wish to become famous
among the people, or who are oppressed by the members of their own
caste, or who want to injure their caste fellows, or who are spies of
the King, or who have any other object to attain.

(7). Lastly, if the woman desired by the King be living with some person
who is not her husband, then the King should cause her to be arrested,
and having made her a slave, on account of her crime, should place her
in the harem. Or the King should cause his ambassador to quarrel with
the husband of the woman desired by him, and should then imprison her as
the wife of an enemy of the King, and by this means should place her in
the harem.

Thus end the means of gaining over the wives of others secretly.

The above mentioned ways of gaining over the wives of other men are
chiefly practised in the palaces of Kings. But a King should never enter
the abode of another person, for Abhira,[64] the King of the Kottas was
killed by a washerman while in the house of another, and in the same way
Jayasana the King of the Kashis was slain by the commandment of his
cavalry.

But according to the customs of some countries there are facilities for
Kings to make love to the wives of other men. Thus in the country of the
Andras[65] the newly married daughters of the people thereof enter the
King's harem with some presents on the tenth day of their marriage, and
having been enjoyed by the King are then dismissed. In the country of
the Vatsagulmas[66] the wives of the chief ministers approach the King
at night to serve him. In the country of the Vaidarbhas[67] the
beautiful wives of the inhabitants pass a month in the King's harem
under the pretence of affection for the King. In the country of the
Aparatakas[68] the people gave their beautiful wives as presents to the
ministers and the Kings. And lastly in the country of the
Saurashtras[69] the women of the city and the country enter the royal
harem for the King's pleasure either together or separately.

There are also two verses on the subject as follows:

"The above and other ways are the means employed in different countries
by Kings with regard to the wives of other persons. But a King, who has
the welfare of his people at heart, should not on any account put them
into practice."

"A King who has conquered the six[70] enemies of mankind, becomes the
master of the whole earth."

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 63: This is a phrase used for a man who does the work of
everybody, and who is fed by the whole village.]

[Footnote 64: The exact date of the reign of these kings is not known.
It is supposed to have been about the beginning of the Christian era.]

[Footnote 65: The modern country of Tailangam, which is to the South of
Rajamundry.]

[Footnote 66: Supposed to be a tract of the country to the south of
Malwa.]

[Footnote 67: Now known by the name of Berar. Its capital was
Kundinpura, which has been identified with the modern Oomravati.]

[Footnote 68: Also called Aparantakas, being the northern and southern
Concan.]

[Footnote 69: The modern provinces of Katteeawar. Its capital was called
Girinaguda, or the modern Junagurh.]

[Footnote 70: These are Lust, Anger, Avarice, Spiritual Ignorance,
Pride, and Envy.]



