
ABOUT THE WOMEN OF THE ROYAL HAREM; AND OF THE KEEPING OF ONE'S OWN
WIFE.


The women of the royal harem cannot see or meet any men on account of
their being strictly guarded, neither do they have their desires
satisfied, because their only husband is common to many wives. For this
reason among themselves they give pleasure to each other in various ways
as now described.

Having dressed the daughters of their nurses, or their female friends,
or their female attendants, like men, they accomplish their object by
means of bulbs, roots, and fruits having the form of the Lingam, or they
lie down upon the statue of a male figure, in which the Lingam is
visible and erect.

Some Kings, who are compassionate, take or apply certain medicines to
enable them to enjoy many wives in one night, simply for the purpose of
satisfying the desire of their women, though they perhaps have no desire
of their own. Others enjoy with great affection only those wives that
they particularly like, while others only take them according as the
turn of each wife arrives in due course. Such are the ways of enjoyment
prevalent in Eastern countries, and what is said about the means of
enjoyment of the female is also applicable to the male.

By means of their female attendants the ladies of the royal harem
generally get men into their apartments in the disguise or dress of
women. Their female attendants, and the daughters of their nurses, who
are acquainted with their secrets, should exert themselves to get men to
come to the harem in this way by telling them of the good fortune
attending it, and by describing the facilities of entering and leaving
the palace, the large size of the premises, the carelessness of the
sentinels, and the irregularities of the attendants about the persons of
the royal wives. But these women should never induce a man to enter the
harem by telling him falsehoods, for that would probably lead to his
destruction.

As for the man himself, he had better not enter a royal harem, even
though it may be easily accessible, on account of the numerous disasters
to which he may be exposed there. If however he wants to enter it, he
should first ascertain whether there is an easy way to get out, whether
it is closely surrounded by the pleasure garden, whether it has separate
enclosures belonging to it, whether the sentinels are careless, whether
the King has gone abroad, and then, when he is called by the women of
the harem, he should carefully observe the localities, and enter by the
way pointed out by them. If he is able to manage it, he should hang
about the harem every day, and, under some pretext or other, make
friends with the sentinels, and show himself attached to the female
attendants of the harem, who may have become acquainted with his design,
and to whom he should express his regret at not being able to obtain the
object of his desire. Lastly he should cause the whole business of a
go-between to be done by the woman who may have access to the harem, and
he should be careful to be able to recognize the emissaries of the King.

When a go-between has no access to the harem, then the man should stand
in some place where the lady, whom he loves, and whom he is anxious to
enjoy, can be seen.

If that place is occupied by the King's sentinels, he should then
disguise himself as a female attendant of the lady who comes to the
place, or passes by it. When she looks at him he should let her know his
feelings by outward signs and gestures, and should show her pictures,
things with double meanings, chaplets of flowers, and rings. He should
carefully mark the answer she gives, whether by word or by sign, or by
gesture, and should then try and get into the harem. If he is certain of
her coming to some particular place he should conceal himself there, and
at the appointed time should enter along with her as one of the guards.
He may also go in and out, concealed in a folded bed, or bed covering,
or with his body made invisible,[71] by means of external applications,
a receipt for one of which is as follows:

The heart of an ichneumon, the fruit of the long gourd (Tumbi), and the
eyes of the serpent, should all be burnt without letting out the smoke,
the ashes should then be ground and mixed in equal quantities with
water. By putting this mixture upon the eyes a man can go about unseen.

Other means of invisibility are prescribed by Duyana Brahmans and
Jogashiras.

Again the man may enter the harem during the festival of the eight moon
in the month of Nargashirsha, and during the moonlight festivals when
the female attendants of the harem are all busily occupied, or in
confusion.

The following principles are laid down on this subject.

The entrance of young men into harems, and their exit from them,
generally take place when things are being brought into the palace, or
when things are being taken out of it, or when drinking festivals are
going on, or when the female attendants are in a hurry, or when the
residence of some of the royal ladies is being changed, or when the
King's wives go to gardens, or to fairs, or when they enter the palace
on their return from them; or, lastly, when the King is absent on a long
pilgrimage. The women of the royal harem know each other's secrets, and
having but one object to attain, they give assistance to each other. A
young man, who enjoys all of them, and who is common to them all, can
continue enjoying his union with them so long as it is kept quiet, and
is not known abroad.

Now in the country of the Aparatakas the royal ladies are not well
protected, and consequently many young men are passed into the harem by
the women who have access to the royal palaces. The wives of the King of
the Ahira country accomplish their objects with those sentinels in the
harem who bear the name of Kashtriyas. The royal ladies in the country
of the Vatsagulmas cause such men as are suitable to enter into the
harem along with their female messengers. In the country of the
Vaidarbhas the sons of the royal ladies enter the royal harem when they
please, and enjoy the women, with the exception of their own mothers. In
the Stri-rajya the wives of the King are enjoyed by his caste fellows
and relations. In the Ganda country the royal wives are enjoyed by
Brahmans, friends, servants, and slaves. In the Samdhava country,
servants, foster children, and other persons like them enjoy the women
of the harem. In the country of the Haimavatas adventurous citizens
bribe the sentinels and enter the harem. In the country of the Vanyas
and the Kalmyas, Brahmans, with the knowledge of the King, enter the
harem under the pretence of giving flowers to the ladies, and speak with
them from behind a curtain, and from such conversation union afterwards
takes place. Lastly, the women in the harem of the King of the Prachyas
conceal one young man in the harem for every batch of nine or ten of the
women.

Thus act the wives of others.

For these reasons a man should guard his own wife. Old authors say that
a King should select for sentinels in his harem such men as have their
freedom from carnal desires well tested. But such men, though free
themselves from carnal desire, by reason of their fear or avarice, may
cause other persons to enter the harem, and therefore Gonikaputra says,
that Kings should place such men in the harem as may have had their
freedom from carnal desires, their fears, and their avarice well tested.
Lastly, Vatsyayana says that under the influence of Dharma[72] people
might be admitted, and therefore men should be selected who are free
from carnal desires, fear, avarice, and Dharma.[73]

The followers of Babhravya say that a man should cause his wife to
associate with a young woman who would tell him the secrets of other
people, and thus find out from her about his wife's chastity. But
Vatsyayana says, that as wicked persons are always successful with
women, a man should not cause his innocent wife to be corrupted by
bringing her into the company of a deceitful woman.

The following are the causes of the destruction of a woman's chastity:

Always going into society, and sitting in company.

Absence of restraint.

The loose habits of her husband.

Want of caution in her relations with other men.

Continued and long absence of her husband.

Living in a foreign country.

Destruction of her love and feelings by her husband.

The company of loose women.

The jealousy of her husband.

There are also the following verses on the subject.

"A clever man, learning from the Shastras the ways of winning over the
wives of other people, is never deceived in the case of his own wives.
No one, however, should make use of these ways for seducing the wives of
others, because they do not always succeed, and, moreover, often cause
disasters, and the destruction of Dharma and Artha. This book, which is
intended for the good of the people, and to teach them the ways of
guarding their own wives, should not be made use of merely for gaining
over the wives of others."

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 71: The way to make oneself invisible; the knowledge of the
art of transmigration, or changing ourselves or others into any shape or
form by the use of charms and spells; the power of being in two places
at once, and other occult sciences are frequently referred to in all
Oriental literature.]

[Footnote 72: This may be considered as meaning religious influence, and
alludes to persons who may be gained over by that means.]

[Footnote 73: It may be noted from the above remarks that eunuchs do not
appear to have been employed in the King's harem in those days, though
they seem to have been employed for other purposes. See Part II., page
43.]

=END OF PART V.=




PART VI.

ABOUT COURTESANS.




INTRODUCTORY REMARKS.


This Part VI., about courtesans, was prepared by Vatsyayana, from a
treatise on the subject, that was written by Dattaka, for the women of
Pataliputra (the modern Patna), some two thousand years ago. Dattaka's
work does not appear to be extant now, but this abridgement of it is
very clever, and quite equal to any of the productions of Emile Zola,
and other writers of the realistic school of to-day.

Although a great deal has been written on the subject of the courtesan,
nowhere will be found a better description of her, of her belongings, of
her ideas, and of the working of her mind, than is contained in the
following pages.

The details of the domestic and social life of the early Hindoos would
not be complete without mention of the courtesan, and Part VI. is
entirely devoted to this subject. The Hindoos have ever had the good
sense to recognise courtesans as a part and portion of human society,
and so long as they behaved themselves with decency and propriety, they
were regarded with a certain respect. Anyhow, they have never been
treated in the East with that brutality and contempt so common in the
West, while their education has always been of a superior kind to that
bestowed upon the rest of womankind in Oriental countries.

In the earlier days the well-educated Hindoo dancing girl and courtesan
doubtless resembled the Hetera of the Greeks, and being educated and
amusing, were far more acceptable as companions than the generality of
the married or unmarried women of that period. At all times and in all
countries, there has ever been a little rivalry between the chaste and
the unchaste. But while some women are born courtesans, and follow the
instincts of their nature in every class of society, it has been truly
said by some authors that every woman has got an inkling of the
profession in her nature, and does her best, as a general rule, to make
herself agreeable to the male sex.

The subtlety of women, their wonderful perceptive powers, their
knowledge, and their intuitive appreciation of men and things, are all
shown in the following pages, which may be looked upon as a concentrated
essence that has been since worked up into detail by many writers in
every quarter of the globe.



