
OF GAINS AND LOSSES; ATTENDANT GAINS AND LOSSES; AND DOUBTS; AS ALSO OF
THE DIFFERENT KINDS OF COURTESANS.


It sometimes happens that while gains are being sought for, or expected
to be realised, that losses only are the result of our efforts, the
causes of these losses are:

Weakness of intellect.

Excessive love.

Excessive pride.

Excessive self conceit.

Excessive simplicity.

Excessive confidence.

Excessive anger.

Carelessness.

Recklessness.

Influence of evil genius.

Accidental circumstances.

The results of these losses are:

Expense incurred without any result.

Destruction of future good fortune.

Stoppage of gains about to be realized.

Loss of what is already obtained.

Acquisition of a sour temper.

Becoming unaimiable to every body.

Injury to health.

Loss of hair and other accidents.

Now gain is of three kinds, viz.: gain of wealth, gain of religious
merit, and gain of pleasure; and similarly, loss is of three kinds,
viz.: loss of wealth, loss of religious merit, and loss of pleasure. At
the time when gains are sought for, if other gains come along with them,
these are called attendant gains. When gain is uncertain, the doubt of
its being a gain is called a simple doubt. When there is a doubt
whether either of two things will happen or not, it is called a mixed
doubt. If while one thing is being done two results take place, it is
called a combination of two results, and if several results follow from
the same action, it is called a combination of results on every side.

We shall now give examples of the above.

As already stated, gain is of three kinds, and loss, which is opposed to
gain, is also of three kinds.

(a). When by living with a great man a courtesan acquires present
wealth, and in addition to this becomes acquainted with other people,
and thus obtains a chance of future fortune, and an accession of wealth,
and becomes desirable to all, this is called a gain of wealth attended
by other gain.

(b). When by living with a man a courtesan simply gets money, this is
called a gain of wealth not attended by any other gain.

(c). When a courtesan receives money from other people besides her
lover, the results are: the chance of the loss of future good from her
present lover; the chance of disaffection of a man securely attached to
her; the hatred of all; and the chance of a union with some low person,
tending to destroy her future good. This gain is called a gain of wealth
attended by losses.

(d). When a courtesan, at her own expense, and without any results in
the shape of gain, has connected with a great man, or an avaricious
minister, for the sake of diverting some misfortune, or removing some
cause that may be threatening the destruction of a great gain, this loss
is said to be a loss of wealth attended by gains of the future good
which it may bring about.

(e). When a courtesan is kind, even at her own expense, to a man who is
very stingy, or to a man proud of his looks, or to an ungrateful man
skilled in gaining the heart of others, without any good resulting from
these connections to her in the end, this loss is called a loss of
wealth not attended by any gain.

(f). When a courtesan is kind to any such man as described above, but
who in addition are favourites of the King, and moreover cruel and
powerful, without any good result in the end, and with a chance of her
being turned away at any moment, this loss is called a loss of wealth
attended by other losses.

In this way gains and losses, and attendant gains and losses in
religious merit and pleasures may become known to the reader, and
combinations of all of them may also be made.

Thus end the remarks on gains and losses, and attendant gains and
losses.

In the next place we come to doubts, which are again of three kinds,
viz.: doubts about wealth, doubts about religious merit, and doubts
about pleasures.

The following are examples.

(a). When a courtesan is not certain how much a man may give her, or
spend upon her, this is called a doubt about wealth.

(b). When a courtesan feels doubtful whether she is right in entirely
abandoning a lover from whom she is unable to get money, she having
taken all his wealth from him in the first instance, this doubt is
called a doubt about religious merit.

(c). When a courtesan is unable to get hold of a lover to her liking,
and is uncertain whether she will derive any pleasure from a person
surrounded by his family, or from a low person, this is called a doubt
about pleasure.

(d). When a courtesan is uncertain whether some powerful but low
principled fellow would cause loss to her on account of her not being
civil to him, this is called a doubt about the loss of wealth.

(e). When a courtesan feels doubtful whether she would lose religious
merit by abandoning a man who is attached to her without giving him the
slightest favour, and thereby causing him unhappiness in this world and
the next,[76] this doubt is called a doubt about the loss of a religious
merit.

(f). When a courtesan is uncertain as to whether she might create
disaffection by speaking out, and revealing her love and thus not get
her desire satisfied, this is called a doubt about the loss of pleasure.

Thus end the remarks on doubts.


_Mixed Doubts_.

(a). The intercourse or connection with a stranger, whose disposition is
unknown, and who may have been introduced by a lover, or by one who
possessed authority, may be productive either of gain or loss, and
therefore this is called a mixed doubt about the gain and loss of
wealth.

(b). When a courtesan is requested by a friend, or is impelled by pity
to have intercourse with a learned Brahman, a religious student, a
sacrificer, a devotee, or an ascetic who may have all fallen in love
with her, and who may be consequently at the point of death, by doing
this she might either gain or lose religious merit, and therefore this
is called a mixed doubt about the gain and loss of religious merit.

(c). If a courtesan relies solely upon the report of other people (_i.e._,
hearsay) about a man, and goes to him without ascertaining herself
whether he possesses good qualities or not, she may either gain or lose
pleasure in proportion as he may be good or bad, and therefore this is
called a mixed doubt about the gain and loss of pleasure.

Uddalika has described the gains and losses on both sides as follows.

(a). If, when living with a lover, a courtesan gets both wealth and
pleasure from him, it is called a gain on both sides.

(b). When a courtesan lives with a lover at her own expense without
getting any profit out of it, and the lover even takes back from her
what he may have formerly given her, it is called a loss on both sides.

(c). When a courtesan is uncertain whether a new acquaintance would
become attached to her, and, moreover, if he became attached to her,
whether he would give her any thing, it is then called a doubt on both
sides about gains.

(d). When a courtesan is uncertain whether a former enemy, if made up by
her at her own expense, would do her some injury on account of his
grudge against her; or, if becoming attached to her, would take away
angrily from her any thing that he may have given to her, this is called
a doubt on both sides about loss.

Babhravya has described the gains and losses on both sides as follows.

(a). When a courtesan can get money from a man whom she may go to see,
and also money from a man whom she may not go to see, this is called a
gain on both sides.

(b). When a courtesan has to incur further expense if she goes to see a
man, and yet runs the risk of incurring an irremediable loss if she does
not go to see him, this is called a loss on both sides.

(c). When a courtesan is uncertain, whether a particular man would give
her anything on her going to see him, without incurring expense on her
part, or whether on her neglecting him another man would give her
something, this is called a doubt on both sides about gain.

(d.) When a courtesan is uncertain, whether, on going at her own expense
to see an old enemy, he would take back from her what he may have given
her, or whether by her not going to see him he would cause some disaster
to fall upon her, this is called a doubt on both sides about loss.

By combining the above, the following six kinds of mixed results are
produced, viz.:

(a). Gain on one side, and loss on the other.

(b). Gain on one side, and doubt of gain on the other.

(c). Gain on one side, and doubt of loss on the other.

(d). Loss on one side, and doubt of gain on the other.

(e). Doubt of gain on one side, and doubt of loss on the other.

(f). Doubt of loss on one side, and loss on the other.

A courtesan, having considered all the above things, and taken council
with her friends, should act so as to acquire gain, the chances of great
gain, and the warding off of any great disaster. Religious merit and
pleasure should also be formed into separate combinations like those of
wealth, and then all should be combined with each other, so as to form
new combinations.

When a courtesan consorts with men she should cause each of them to give
her money as well as pleasure. At particular times, such as the Spring
Festivals, etc., she should make her mother announce to the various men,
that on a certain day her daughter would remain with the man who would
gratify such and such a desire of hers.

When young men approach her with delight, she should think of what she
may accomplish through them.

The combination of gains and losses on all sides are: gain on one side,
and loss on all others; loss on one side and gain on all others; gain on
all sides, loss on all sides.

A courtesan should also consider doubts about gain and doubts about loss
with reference both to wealth, religious merit, and pleasure.

Thus ends the consideration of gain, loss, attendant gains, attendant
losses, and doubts.

The different kinds of courtesans are:

A bawd.

A female attendant.

An unchaste woman.

A dancing girl.

A female artisan.

A woman who has left her family.

A woman living on her beauty.

And, finally, a regular courtesan.

All the above kinds of courtesans are acquainted with various kinds of
men, and should consider the ways of getting money from them, of
pleasing them, of separating themselves from them, and of re-uniting
with them. They should also take into consideration particular gains and
losses, attendant gains and losses, and doubts in accordance with their
several conditions.

Thus end the considerations of courtesans.

There are also two verses on the subject as follows:

"Men want pleasure, while women want money, and therefore this Part,
which treats of the means of gaining wealth, should be studied."

"There are some women who seek for love, and there are others who seek
for money; for the former the ways of love are told in previous portions
of this work, while the ways of getting money, as practised by
courtesans, are described in this Part."

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 76: The souls of men who die with their desires unfulfilled
are said to go to the world of the Manes, and not direct to the Supreme
Spirit.]

=END OF PART VI.=




PART VII.

ABOUT THE MEANS OF ATTRACTING OTHERS TO YOURSELF.



