
OF THE WAYS OF EXCITING DESIRE, AND MISCELLANEOUS EXPERIMENTS, AND
RECIPES.


If a man is unable to satisfy a Hastini, or elephant woman, he should
have recourse to various means to excite her passion. At the
commencement he should rub her yoni with his hand or fingers, and not
begin to have intercourse with her until she becomes excited, or
experiences pleasure. This is one way of exciting a woman.

Or, he may make use of certain Apadravyas, or things which are put on or
around the lingam to supplement its length or its thickness, so as to
fit it to the yoni. In the opinion of Babhravya, these Apadravyas should
be made of gold, silver, copper, iron, ivory, buffalo's horn, various
kinds of wood, tin or lead, and should be soft, cool, provocative of
sexual vigour, and well fitted to serve the intended purpose.
Vatsyayana, however, says that they may be made according to the natural
liking of each individual.

The following are the different kinds of Apadravyas.

(1). "The armlet" (Valaya) should be of the same size as the lingam, and
should have its outer surface made rough with globules.

(2). "The couple" (Sanghati) is formed of two armlets.

(3). "The bracelet" (Chudaka) is made by joining three or more armlets,
until they come up to the required length of the lingam.

(4). "The single bracelet" is formed by wrapping a single wire around
the lingam, according to its dimensions.

(5). The Kantuka or Jalaka is a tube open at both ends, with a hole
through it, outwardly rough and studded with soft globules, and made to
fit the side of the yoni, and tied to the waist.

When such a thing cannot be obtained, then a tube made of the wood
apple, or tubular stalk of the bottle gourd, or a reed made soft with
oil and extracts of plants, and tied to the waist with strings, may be
made use of, as also a row of soft pieces of wood tied together.

The above are the things that can be used in connection with or in the
place of the lingam.

The people of the southern countries think that true sexual pleasure
cannot be obtained without perforating the lingam, and they therefore
cause it to be pierced like the lobes of the ears of an infant pierced
for earrings.

Now, when a young man perforates his lingam he should pierce it with a
sharp instrument, and then stand in water so long as the blood continues
to flow. At night he should engage in sexual intercourse, even with
vigour, so as to clean the hole. After this he should continue to wash
the hole with decoctions, and increase the size by putting into it small
pieces of cane, and the wrightia antidysenterica, and thus gradually
enlarging the orifice. It may also be washed with liquorice mixed with
honey, and the size of the hole increased by the fruit stalks of the
sima-patra plant. The hole should be annointed with a small quantity of
oil.

In the hole made in the lingam a man may put Apadravyas of various
forms, such as the "round," the "round on one side," the "wooden
mortar," the "flower," the "armlet," the "bone of the heron," the "goad
of the elephant," the "collection of eight balls," the "lock of hair,"
the "place where four roads meet," and other things named according to
their forms and means of using them. All these Apadravyas should be
rough on the outside according to their requirements.

The ways of enlarging the lingam must be now related.

When a man wishes to enlarge his lingam, he should rub it with the
bristles of certain insects that live in trees, and then, after rubbing
it for ten nights with oils, he should again rub it with the bristles as
before. By continuing to do this a swelling will be gradually produced
in the lingam, and he should then lie on a cot, and cause his lingam to
hang down through a hole in the cot. After this he should take away all
the pain from the swelling by using cool concoctions. The swelling,
which is called "Suka," and is often brought about among the people of
the Dravida country, lasts for life.

If the lingam is rubbed with the following things, viz., the plant
physalis flexuosa, the shavara-kandaka plant, the jalasuka plant, the
fruit of the egg plant, the butter of a she buffalo, the hastri-charma
plant, and the juice of the vajra-rasa plant, a swelling lasting for one
month will be produced.

By rubbing it with oil boiled in the concoctions of the above things,
the same effect will be produced, but lasting for six months.

The enlargement of the lingam is also effected by rubbing it or
moistening it with oil boiled on a moderate fire along with the seeds of
the pomegranate, and the cucumber, the juices of the valuka plant, the
hasti-charma plant, and the egg-plant.

In addition to the above, other means may be learnt from experienced and
confidential persons.

The miscellaneous experiments and recipes are as follows:

(a). If a man mixes the powder of the milk hedge plant, and the kantaka
plant with the excrement of a monkey, and the powdered root of the
lanjalalika plant, and throws this mixture on a woman, she will not love
any body else afterwards.

(b). If a man thickens the juice of the fruits of the cassia fistula,
and the eugenia jambolana by mixing them with the powder of the soma
plant, the vernonia anthelmintica, the eclipta prostata, and the
lohopa-jihirka, and applies this composition to the yoni of a woman, and
then has sexual intercourse with her, his love for her will be
destroyed.

(c). The same effect is produced if a man has connection with a woman
who has bathed in the butter-milk of a she-buffalo mixed with the
powders of the gopalika plant, the banu-padika plant, and the yellow
amaranth.

(d). An ointment made of the flowers of the nauclea cadamba, the hog
plum, and the eugenia jambolana, and used by a woman, causes her to be
disliked by her husband.

(e). Garlands made of the above flowers, when worn by the woman, produce
the same effect.

(f). An ointment made of the fruit of the asteracantha longifolia
(kokilaksha) will contract the yoni of a Hastini or elephant woman, and
this contraction lasts for one night.

(g). An ointment made by pounding the roots of the nelumbrium speciosum,
and of the blue lotus, and the powder of the plant physalis flexuosa
mixed with ghee and honey, will enlarge the yoni of the Mrigi or deer
woman.

(h). An ointment made of the fruit of the emblica myrabolans soaked in
the milky juice of the milk hedge plant, of the soma plant, the
calotropis gigantea, and the juice of the fruit of the vernonia
anthelmintica, will make the hair white.

(i). The juice of the roots of the madayantaka plant, the yellow
amaranth, the anjanika plant, the clitoria ternateea, and the
shlakshnaparni plant, used as a lotion, will make the hair grow.

(j). An ointment made by boiling the above roots in oil, and rubbed in,
will make the hair black, and will also gradually restore hair that has
fallen off.

(k) If lac is saturated seven times in the sweat of the testicle of a
white horse, and applied to a red lip, the lip will become white.

(l). The colour of the lips can be regained by means of the madayantika
and other plants mentioned above under (i).

(m). A woman who hears a man playing on a reed pipe which has been
dressed with the juices of the bahupadika plant, the tabernamontana
coronaria, the costus speciosus or arabicus, the pinus deodora, the
euphorbia antiquorum, the vajra and the kantaka plant, becomes his
slave.

(n). If food be mixed with the fruit of the thorn apple (Dathura) it
causes intoxication.

(o). If water be mixed with oil and the ashes of any kind of grass
except the kusha grass, it becomes the colour of milk.

(p). If yellow myrabolans, the hog plum, the shrawana plant, and the
priyangu plant be all pounded together, and applied to iron pots, these
pots become red.

(q). If a lamp, trimmed with oil extracted from the shrawana and
priyangn plants, its wick being made of cloth and the slough of the
skins of snakes, is lighted, and long pieces of wood placed near it,
those pieces of wood will resemble so many snakes.

(r). Drinking the milk of a white cow who has a white calf at her feet
is auspicious, produces fame, and preserves life.

(s). The blessings of venerable Brahmans, well propitiated, have the
same effect.

There are also some verses in conclusion:

"Thus have I written in a few words the 'Science of love,' after reading
the texts of ancient authors, and following the ways of enjoyment
mentioned in them."

"He who is acquainted with the true principles of this science pays
regard to Dharma, Artha, Kama, and to his own experiences, as well as to
the teachings of others, and does not act simply on the dictates of his
own desire. As for the errors in the science of love which I have
mentioned in this work, on my own authority as an author, I have,
immediately after mentioning them, carefully censured and prohibited
them."

"An act is never looked upon with indulgence for the simple reason that
it is authorised by the science, because it ought to be remembered that
it is the intention of the science, that the rules which it contains
should only be acted upon in particular cases. After reading and
considering the works of Babhravya and other ancient authors, and
thinking over the meaning of the rules given by them, the Kama Sutra was
composed, according to the precepts of Holy Writ, for the benefit of the
world, by Vatsyayana, while leading the life of a religious student, and
wholly engaged in the contemplation of the Deity."

"This work is not intended to be used merely as an instrument for
satisfying our desires. A person, acquainted with the true principles of
this science, and who preserves his Dharma, Artha, and Kama, and has
regard for the practices of the people, is sure to obtain the mastery
over his senses."

"In short, an intelligent and prudent person, attending to Dharma and
Artha, and attending to Kama also, without becoming the slave of his
passions, obtains success in everything that he may undertake."

=END OF PART VII.=




CONCLUDING REMARKS.


Thus ends, in seven parts, the Kama Sutra of Vatsyayana, which might
otherwise be called a treatise on men and women, their mutual
relationship, and connection with each other.

It is a work that should be studied by all, both old and young; the
former will find in it real truths, gathered by experience, and already
tested by themselves, while the latter will derive the great advantage
of learning things, which some perhaps may otherwise never learn at all,
or which they may only learn when it is too late ("too late" those
immortal words of Mirabeau) to profit by the learning.

It can also be fairly commended to the student of social science and of
humanity, and above all to the student of those early ideas, which have
gradually filtered down through the sands of time, and which seem to
prove that the human nature of to-day is much the same as the human
nature of the long ago.

It has been said of Balzac [the great, if not the greatest of French
novelists] that he seemed to have inherited a natural and intuitive
perception of the feelings of men and women, and has described them with
an analysis worthy of a man of science. The author of the present work
must also have had a considerable knowledge of the humanities. Many of
his remarks are so full of simplicity and truth, that they have stood
the test of time, and stand out still as clear and true as when they
were first written, some eighteen hundred years ago.

As a collection of facts, told in plain and simple language, it must be
remembered that in those early days there was apparently no idea of
embellishing the work, either with a literary style, a flow of
language, or a quantity of superfluous padding. The author tells the
world what he knows in very concise language, without any attempt to
produce an interesting story. From his facts how many novels could be
written! Indeed much of the matter contained in parts III. IV. V. and
VI., has formed the basis of many of the stories and the tales of past
centuries.

There will be found in part VII., some curious recipes. Many of them
appear to be as primitive as the book itself, but in later works of the
same nature these recipes and prescriptions appear to have increased,
both as regards quality and quantity. In the Anunga Runga or "The Stage
of Love," mentioned at page 5 of the Preface in Part I., there are found
no less than thirty-three different subjects for which one hundred and
thirty recipes and prescriptions are given.

As the details may be interesting, these subjects are described as
follows:

1. For hastening the paroxysm of the woman.

2. For delaying the organs of the man.

3. Aphrodisiacs.

4. For thickening and enlarging the lingam, rendering it sound and
strong, hard and lusty.

5. For narrowing and contracting the yoni.

6. For perfuming the yoni.

7. For removing and destroying the hair of the body.

8. For removing the sudden stopping of the monthly ailment.

9. For abating the immoderate appearance of the monthly ailment.

10. For purifying the womb.

11. For causing pregnancy.

12. For preventing miscarriage and other accidents.

13. For ensuring easy labour and ready deliverance.

14. For limiting the number of children.

15. For thickening and beautifying the hair.

16. For obtaining a good black colour to it.

17. For whitening and bleaching it.

18. For renewing it.

19. For clearing the skin of the face from eruptions that break out and
leave black spots upon it.

20. For removing the black colour of the epidermis.

21. For enlarging the breasts of women.

22. For raising and hardening pendulous breasts.

23. For giving a fragrance to the skin.

24. For removing the evil savour of perspiration.

25. For anointing the body after bathing.

26. For causing a pleasant smell to the breath.

27. Drugs and charms for the purposes of fascinating, overcoming, and
subduing either men or women.

28. Recipes for enabling a woman to attract and preserve her husband's
love.

29. Magical collyriums for winning love and friendship.

30. Prescriptions for reducing other persons to submission.

31. Philter pills, and other charms.

32. Fascinating incense, or fumigation.

33. Magical verses which have the power of fascination.

Of the one hundred and thirty recipes given, many of them are absurd,
but not more perhaps than many of the recipes and prescriptions in use
in Europe not so very long ago. Love-philters, charms, and herbal
remedies have been, in early days, as freely used in Europe as in Asia,
and doubtless some people believe in them still in many places.

And now, one word about the author of the work, the good old sage
Vatsyayana. It is much to be regretted that nothing can be discovered
about his life, his belongings, and his surroundings. At the end of Part
VII. he states that he wrote the work while leading the life of a
religious student [probably at Benares] and while wholly engaged in the
contemplation of the Deity. He must have arrived at a certain age at
that time, for throughout he gives us the benefit of his experience, and
of his opinions, and these bear the stamp of age rather than of youth;
indeed the work could hardly have been written by a young man.

In a beautiful verse of the Vedas of the Christians it has been said of
the peaceful dead, that they rest from their labours, and that their
works do follow them. Yes indeed, the works of men of genius do follow
them, and remain as a lasting treasure. And though there may be
disputes and discussions about the immortality of the body or the soul,
nobody can deny the immortality of genius, which ever remains as a
bright and guiding star to the struggling humanities of succeeding ages.
This work, then, which has stood the test of centuries, has placed
Vatsyayana among the immortals, and on This, and on Him no better elegy
or eulogy can be written than the following lines:

   "So long as lips shall kiss, and eyes shall see,
   So long lives This, and This gives life to Thee."
