

A weak monsoon, following on scarcity already serious; consequent
failure of autumn and spring crops; and famine, dread word, echoed over
the half of India.

Now the hot weather had set in unusually, as it were, malevolently
early. Areas none too fertile at the best of times reverted to parched
deserts, wells and river-beds dried, canals shrank, strained to the
limit of inadequate supply. People and beasts were dying of disease and
starvation, and officials, both European and Indian, fought one of
Nature's remedies for over-population with every ounce of human energy.

Philip Flint sat in his office-tent weary, over-taxed, writing with a
sort of dogged persistence. His papers were powdered with dust, the ink
evaporated, thickened in the pot; his eyes smarted and his bones ached.
For months he had been touring through stricken districts, his camp a
kind of flying column, inspecting and organising relief works, famine
camps, poor-houses, hospitals. Out at dawn, often not home till dusk, he
would have to sit up half the night to wrestle with reports and returns,
accounts and statistics; so sparing neither body nor brain on behalf of
the miserable multitude that crawled and craved, hunger-smitten,
homeless, his heart sore with the sight of skeleton children, exhausted
mothers, piteous old people....

Early yesterday he had arrived at a remote point far from town or
railway, where earthworks had lately been started for the relief of an
area comprising numerous scattered villages, never prosperous, now on
the verge of absolute ruin. Transport was the chief difficulty; it must
be some time before the light railway that was being laid from the
nearest junction could be completed. Cartage and bullocks were scarce,
and though a certain stock of food and necessaries were already to hand,
there were many to be fed, clothed, accommodated, and the numbers
increased day and night. The hospital sheds, in charge of a native
doctor, were filling rapidly; further medical help would be needed.
Flint had been thankful to hear from his senior subordinate that
recently a Zenana Mission lady had arrived with a fair supply of
comforts. He was familiar with the invaluable work of such women; it was
beyond all praise. As yet he had not had the time to visit the little
encampment pointed out to him on the far side of the works; all day he
had been too busy superintending transport, checking stores of grain,
considering applications for financial assistance, while it was his
duty, as well, to detect and guard against imposition, to sift demands,
even to appear callous, that the ready cunning of those who sought to
benefit by help intended for their suffering brethren might be
frustrated. Only this afternoon he had been nearly outdone by an old
fellow who presented himself among a gang of emaciated villagers
clamouring that he had no plough-bullocks, no seed, nothing--that he and
his descendants were ruined.... At first Flint had listened with
sympathy until something in the demeanour of the bystanders aroused his
suspicions; a few of the less distressed members of the crowd were
covertly smiling as though in amused admiration of the patriarch's
powers of persuasion, and a little adroit inquiry disclosed the fact
that the supplicant was none other than the moneylender of the village
whence they had all come.

In contrast with this example of rascality a man of low caste in obvious
need had stoutly refused assistance other than in the form of a loan
from the Government to be repaid with reasonable interest when times
should improve. So it had gone on from the first--patience and pride,
heroic endurance, a fine sense of fair play, in company with avarice,
fraud, evil intention. Ignorance, stupidity, superstition had to be
reckoned with as well, allowed for; the problems were endless, for,
while the people must be tended and fed, money could not be wasted or
misapplied.

At last Flint laid down his pen and leaned back in his chair to relax
muscles and mind. Had he been called upon to define his condition, he
would have summed it up simply in the one word "cooked." He lit a
cigarette and allowed his thoughts liberty, it was seldom he permitted
them to dwell upon the past, but to-night he was too tired for
self-discipline. On leaving Rassih he had volunteered for famine work as
a desperate antidote to his sickness of heart and spirit; this in face
of the knowledge that the decision had probably cost him a chance of
important advancement, but the future for him had been shorn of
attraction, and the sight of wretchedness and want, his passionate pity
for the helpless, the strain and the stress of the work had, he knew,
preserved him from despair as no official promotion could have preserved
him at the time.

All the same Stella had never been far from his memory, and to-night she
seemed to him painfully near. Again he went over that last scene in the
Commissioner's house, saw Crayfield standing grim and contemptuous in
the big drawing-room, Stella weeping and helpless, himself worsted,
ashamed, without honest claim to defence. "_Slink, you young hound!_"
The sentence forced itself backwards and forwards through his brain,
hitting his pride each time like a shameful blow.... In his weak
selfishness what misery he had brought upon himself and the woman he
loved, would never cease to love. Where was she now? What was she doing?
He pictured her at the piano accompanying the self-satisfied vocal
performance of her husband! He visioned the light on her hair, the
delicate outline of her neck, and he writhed as the memory tortured his
heart. What devilish fate had taken him to Rassih! Yet he had a feeling
that in any case he and Stella must ultimately have met, and that some
day, somehow, they must meet again. The refrain of a cheaply sentimental
little ballad he had heard her sing came back to him: "Some day, some
day, some day, I shall meet you"--he could almost hear the clear,
chorister-like voice.... Of a certainty the day would come, and then? He
smiled with a sweet bitterness as he recalled her faith in his work, in
his usefulness to India; she had said: "Without men like you the wheel
would not go round." Well, he was doing his best in his own way to act
up to her trust; and for her sake he would stick to the wheel, humbly,
unswervingly, though the zest and the savour of ambition had gone, wiped
out by unlawful love....

A cold muzzle crept into his hand that hung listless at his side--Jacob,
diffident, sensitive, asking attention; Jacob had loved her too, with
all his tender dog-heart. On that terrible evening Jacob had sat
shivering on the edge of her skirt, conscious of trouble, until he
followed his miserable master from the room.

Suddenly he became aware that someone was speaking; he looked up to see
an apologetic peon standing at his elbow.

"Sahib, there is a memsahib without."

For one wild second he fancied it might be Stella, his mind was so full
of her. Had she fled to him, sure of his love and protection, willing to
give herself into his care? He felt as though aroused from a distressing
dream, perhaps to find that all the pain and the longing had passed----

"A memsahib is without," repeated the peon resentfully. "She will not
depart, though this slave hath told her that the sahib is busy."

Flint rose mechanically, his reason flouting the fancy that Stella could
be "the memsahib without." A tall figure was framed in the doorway of
the tent.

"Yes?" he said with tentative politeness.

"I won't keep you long." The voice was brisk and high. "I've come from
the Zenana Mission camp, where I'm helping Miss Abigail on behalf of the
Charitable Relief Fund Committee."

"Indeed!" murmured Philip, inwardly apprehensive. The Charitable Relief
Fund Committee sometimes added heavily to his work and responsibilities,
admirable though its purpose, welcome though its help.

"Yes, I've been hoping all day to get hold of you, but you were always
somewhere else."

"Please come in." He glanced around dubiously, for the interior of the
tent seemed hardly fit for the reception of a lady; files and papers
heaped on the table, on the chairs, even on the floor; dust, cigarette
ends, everywhere; camp equipage, boxes, books and boots, in a hopeless
jumble.

"I'm afraid it's all very untidy," he added as he cleared a seat.

The brisk, high voice responded: "What _does_ it matter! Who can hope to
be tidy in these horrible circumstances. I feel very untidy myself."

She did not look it, whatever she felt. Here was no typical Zenana
Mission female, but a long-limbed, well-built girl, garbed in a neat
holland frock, brown shoes, wash-leather gloves, and an obviously
English felt hat, bound with a blue puggaree, that proclaimed itself
"Indispensable for travel in the East." All very plain and serviceable,
but to an experienced eye undoubtedly expensive.

To Flint's astonishment she took off her hat, carelessly, as any man
might have done, and dropped it beside her chair. He saw that her hair
was cropped short, a thick mop of curling, fox-coloured hair; that her
eyes, clear and shining, were grey (and truculent), that her freckled
irregular nose and rather large mouth had a certain charm. He felt
faintly scandalised when she proceeded to help herself calmly to a
cigarette from his box, lighting it with an accustomed air. Smoking
among ladies was not general in India at that period. Seated, she
crossed her legs, showing slim ankles and neatly-turned calves in brown
stockings.

"Well," she began, "I thought someone ought to come and tell you that a
lot of people have bolted from the relief works."

"Yes, I know----"

"And you don't care, I suppose," she interrupted.

He stared at her, puzzled; why this unprovoked attack? "We shall get
them back. Perhaps you don't realise the reason----"

Again she broke in: "It's because you officials inspire no trust!"

What on earth was the matter with the girl--was she a lunatic?

"I'm afraid superstition is more to blame," he told her patiently. "Some
mischief-maker among them has probably started the report that they are
all to be murdered in order to extract oil from their bodies for
medicinal purposes."

"What nonsense!"

He wondered if she meant the report, or his explanation.

"Of course it's nonsense. But that kind of thing will happen, even
nowadays. Superstition dies hard in India. Coolies often bolt wholesale
when some important work has to be started, because in old times, before
our occupation of the country, a human victim was nearly always buried
beneath the foundations of any big building as a sop to the gods!"

He could see she did not believe him. His anger rose. "How long have you
been out here?" he inquired.

"Quite long enough to discover how little the people are considered. I
think the Government ought to be hanged. Not a penny will you spend--on
this famine, for example--without exacting the uttermost farthing in
return. You make these wretched creatures work for a mere pittance, you
force them into poor-houses when you know it lowers their self-respect,
and many of them die because they would rather die than accept relief in
the way you administer it!" She paused, breathless.

"And how do you propose it should be administered--indiscriminately, and
no questions asked? That would be rather hard on the taxpayers, and bad
for the people themselves. I think even the Charitable Relief Fund
Committee would hardly work on those lines."

She ignored his argument. "It's appalling," she went on heatedly, "to
find how badly private charity is needed. I came out a few weeks ago to
see what I could do to help, and I'm horrified. Where would all these
unfortunate people be without the Charitable Relief Fund!"

"If it comes to that," he retorted, "where would they be without all the
Government machinery that is kept ready to be set going directly
scarcity becomes serious--the means of transport, the linking up with
unaffected Provinces, the loans for seed and cattle. Good Heavens, you
can have no conception of the work."

She opened her mouth to speak, but he stopped her with a peremptory
gesture, and continued quickly: "Private charity is of the utmost value
in a calamity of this kind, and we are only too thankful for it,
especially in remote regions, but personal sacrifice and hard work isn't
entirely confined to the non-official. The help would be simply a drop
in the ocean if the way hadn't been prepared. Try to be just, Miss----"

He waited interrogatively.

"Baker--Dorothy Baker"--she waved her cigarette. "You may have heard of
my father, Lord Redgate?"

So here was the solution of the girl's extraordinary antagonism. She was
the daughter of a new-made nobleman whose apparent object in life, to
judge by his speeches, was to disparage British administration in India,
to discount the long years of effort and experience, to undermine
confidence in honest rule. No doubt such an undertaking engendered a
nice sense of superiority and importance that blinded its owner to the
truth, if his eyes were not shut deliberately. This obtrusive young
woman was clearly imbued with her parent's particular form of conceit.
He would not trouble to wrangle with her further.

"Oh! yes," he said indifferently; "we have all heard of your father. Did
he object to your coming out here alone?"

"Object? Of course not. He believes in the freedom of the individual.
And if he had objected I should be here all the same. I always do as I
please."

"And it pleased you to come out and do famine work. How kind of you!"

She shot him a glance of contemptuous suspicion. He understood all that
the glance implied; as a British official in India he was an enemy of
the people, a bureaucrat, battening on the revenue wrung from a
poverty-stricken land, one of the guilty gang that kept Indians from the
possession of their country. Yet she seemed in no hurry to quit the
presence of such a tyrant and oppressor; evidently she found his chair
comfortable, was enjoying his cigarettes, and perhaps she was not
altogether averse to a little change of companionship? It was
conceivable that the privilege of constant intercourse with her Zenana
colleague might have become a bit of a strain. For himself her young
presence, despite her antagonism, was in a measure welcome after his fit
of depression. Physically she was an attractive creature, and her naïve
self-importance, her impulsive opinions, suited her vigorous
personality. Jacob, the little traitor, was already making advances to
the visitor. She snapped her finger and thumb in response.

"I like dogs," she said, as though it were a form of weakness that
redounded to her credit. "And they always love me!"

"And horses?"

"Oh! yes, rather! I wanted to buy a pony, but Miss Abigail seemed to
think it would not be quite in keeping with the work we are doing, and
that the money had better be spent in some other direction. We get
about in a bullock shigram, not a very comfortable or rapid mode of
progression, but comfort and convenience don't count, of course.
Personally, I'm not sure that we oughtn't to walk everywhere."

"It would perhaps be a waste of energy and time," suggested Philip.

"But think of the example! You, I suppose, ride or drive everywhere?"

"I couldn't get through my work if I didn't; it would entail endless
delay in the administration of relief. I'm practically single-handed in
this circle. For example, to-morrow morning I have to cover, roughly
speaking, about fifteen miles before breakfast. How would you like to
come with me? Have you a saddle--I could mount you."

Obviously the offer tempted her. "Yes, I brought out my saddle. Perhaps
it wouldn't be a bad thing----"

"It would give you a further opportunity of condemning our iniquitous
methods," said Philip meekly.

She let the thrust pass. "All right; what time do you start?"

"About six. Is that too early for you?"

"Don't talk rot! Send the gee to our camp, and I'll be ready."

"Good! Now can I offer you any refreshment--will you have a cup of tea
or coffee, or," he ventured, in view of the cigarettes, "a peg?"

"Nothing, thank you." She rose a little reluctantly. "Now I must get
back----"

"Have you a lantern?" he inquired, for the sudden Indian dusk had
descended.

She looked out of the tent. "No, I never thought of it, but I can find
my way all right."

"I'll come with you----"

She protested. He paid no attention; and presently they were stumbling
along side by side in the wake of a peon who marched ahead swinging a
hurricane lantern, and banging a staff on the ground to scare possible
snakes that at this season, waking from their winter sleep, were apt to
lie curled in the warm dust, a danger to pedestrians.

"Are you married?" she asked him suddenly.

"No, I am a lone being, and I think it is just as well."

"Why?"

"If I had a wife and children it would only mean separation sooner or
later. Children must be sent home after a certain age, not only on
account of health and education but because the moral atmosphere is bad
for them, and to my mind the children should be considered before the
husband."

"How do you mean--the moral atmosphere?" she asked argumentatively. "I
have always understood that natives were excellent with children, kind
and patient and faithful."

"They are all that, bless them!" he said, "but their ideas of discipline
are not quite the same as our own. To tell lies is merely a matter of
self-protection, and, all wrong as it may seem, they knuckle under to
English children, let them have their own way, and encourage them
indirectly to be arrogant and self-indulgent, taking a sort of pride in
their faults! At least that is what my married friends tell me."

"Then the parents are to blame!" declared Miss Baker severely, "for
leaving their children to the care of servants while they amuse
themselves flirting and dancing and playing games! You don't accuse this
Mr. Kipling everybody talks about of writing what is not true, I
conclude?"

"Have you never read a preface to one of his books in which he
particularly warns his readers not to judge of the dirt of a room by the
sweepings in a corner? Parents in India are much the same as parents in
England, and parents in England haven't to contend with exile and
climate and long separations"--he paused, feeling he was wasting his
breath, and was ashamed of a spiteful little sense of satisfaction when
at that moment she tripped and clung to him to save herself a fall.

"Now, if I hadn't been with you"--he could not help reminding her.

"I should have come a cropper, and probably been none the worse," she
replied ungratefully. "What were we saying? Oh! about parents in India.
Why do you go into the Indian services at all then? You know what to
expect!"

"Why do we go into the army and the navy--the worst paid professions on
earth? It's an instinct, thank goodness, and with it goes the love of
justice and fair play towards the weak and unprotected. It's the keynote
of our power all the world over."

"Oh! you are hopeless!" cried Miss Baker. "I call it love of conquest,
and position, and power!"

"Call it what you like, don't you shut your eyes to the results--anyway,
out here."

"The results! Poverty and famine, and a refusal to allow the people to
govern themselves, refusal to mix with them socially----"

"Wait a moment," he interrupted, angry with himself because he could not
keep silence. "Which in your opinion should govern--the Hindus or the
Mohammedans?"

"Of course the Hindus. India is _their_ country."

"The Mohammedans would have something to say to that; or, rather, it
would be deeds not words. And how about other nations who would all like
to exploit India? We could hardly be expected to keep up an army and a
navy to prevent them from doing so if we had no stake in the country."

"Go on," she urged sarcastically. "I am listening."

"When India is in a position to protect herself from internal quarrels
and foreign invasion it will be time enough for us to clear out; and as
far as social questions go I can assure you they are not at all anxious
to mix with us. Their customs and traditions are all opposed to ours....
But it would take weeks to give you even the most superficial idea of
the difficulties, and at the end I suppose you wouldn't believe me."

"Oh! I've heard it all over and over again from hide-bound old generals
and retired civilians at home, the same time-worn arguments that really
mean nothing. However, I am quite ready to believe that you, personally,
are well disposed towards the people, and that you do your best for them
in spite of the trammels of red tape!"

He refrained from an amused expression of gratitude. After all, the
girl was actuated by benevolent intention, however befogged, and she was
enduring discomforts, almost hardship, in her self-imposed philanthropy,
as he realised when they arrived at the Zenana Mission encampment. What
wretched little tents, badly pitched, ill-lighted, with a clamouring
throng of distressful humanity pressing up to the very flaps. From the
tent in the centre came the sound of singing; a familiar hymn tune.

"There now!" exclaimed Miss Baker in vexation. "I'm late for evening
prayers. I'm an atheist myself, but I try to fit in with my chief's
customs."

"I hope for her sake that you spare her argument on the subject of
religion at least!" said Flint with a magnanimous laugh, as he held her
hand in farewell. "We shall meet again to-morrow morning."

He watched her disappear into the principal tent, and turned his steps
back to his camp, his feelings ajar. Why would these good folk from home
interfere in what they knew nothing about. What mischief they made, all
unwittingly for the most part, adding to the difficulties already so
great for those who were working under conditions but dimly understood
even by the faction who trusted their own countrymen, and did not regard
the English official as a thief and a bully and a time server....

In spite of Miss Baker's tiresome attitude, he looked forward to seeing
her the following morning. She was a stimulating companion and engaging
in her way with her boyish figure, her eager grey eyes, her expressive,
irregular features.... In time, if they met often enough, they might
become friends--an armed friendship, perhaps, but none the less
interesting for that.... What would Stella have thought of her, Stella
with her passionate perception of the work that England had done in the
past, was doing in the present, would continue to do as long as she was
permitted, with honest endeavour, for India. He was conscious of a
revival of his old ambitions as he plodded over the uneven track, and
far into the night he sat writing, reading, spurred, refreshed as well,
by the unexpected diversion of Miss Baker's visit and her violent
opinions.



