

Miss Baker could ride; not a doubt about that, thought Philip. She sat
squarely in her saddle, hands down, right shoulder well back; her habit
skirt was very short, she wore a stiff white shirt and collar, and a
linen coat. The whole effect was neat and smart and pleasing. How she
chattered as they rode over the bare, dusty plain! Some of her theories
rather startled her cavalier; for example, she considered it immoral of
people to have large families unless they could afford to educate the
children highly--this with reference to some friends of Miss Abigail's
who had spent the previous day in the Zenana Mission camp on their way
to the nearest station, a missionary with his spouse and offspring.

"Did you tell them so?" asked Flint with amused curiosity.

"Yes, of course I did; and I asked them how they were going to provide
for three boys and two girls in the future."

"What did they say?"

"They said the Lord would provide, and that the mission granted an extra
allowance for each child!"

"Then you can hardly blame them, I suppose."

"I think that clergymen, and doctors, and schoolmasters ought all to be
celibates. They should be able to give their whole attention to their
work unhampered by domestic affairs."

"That is expecting a good deal, surely?"

"I don't see it. Marriage isn't everything. Now if I were a man I should
never marry."

"And not being a man?"

"Oh, I dare say I shall marry some day, but my husband would have to
share my views on all the important questions of the day, and believe
absolutely in the equality of the sexes. At present I hate men."

"Oh, dear!"

"Yes, that is partly why I came out to India, to escape"--she checked
herself as though she had been on the brink of a confidence, then
added--"to escape worrying attentions."

"Then it was not entirely devotion to the downtrodden masses of this
miserable country?" he asked slyly.

She flushed and said with lofty evasion: "I felt India needed me, I
wanted to _help_ India. I don't mean to stay out here permanently, of
course; only till I have collected enough information and proof to open
the eyes of the electors at home. I shall write a book. I think I shall
call it 'What I saw in India.'"

"Why not 'The Evil English in the East,'" he suggested amiably. "An
alliterative title is always arresting. The one you have thought of
might be regarded as almost too uncommon?"

She laughed as though unable to help herself. At least, it seemed she
had some saving sense of humour.

"How silly you are! You don't take life seriously at all!"

"Perhaps not;" he spoke carelessly, but he felt he could have shaken
Miss Baker--conceited, self-satisfied monkey!--puffed up with her
superficial views, untouched as she was by trouble or experience, so
ready to blame and condemn where she did not understand. Of what avail
to argue with her, why should he bother about what she thought, if she
ever really thought at all! Help India, indeed! Who was she to help or
even hinder the great machinery of Eastern administration, and as to her
independence of sex--some day she would learn that she was but flying in
the face of nature, and he hoped she would suffer for it.

"We must get on," he said; and as they put their horses into a gallop he
found himself admiring the way in which she handled the mount he had
lent her, a high-spirited young chestnut, unaccustomed to a side-saddle,
yet aware that liberties could not be taken with his present rider;
Flint noted the strong turn of her wrist, the firmness of her long, slim
foot in the stirrup, the poise of her straight young figure. It crossed
his mind, but for her wild ideas what a wife she would make for a man
whose life was all action; ready for emergencies and discomforts,
willing to rough it, daring, unafraid. She ought to marry a colonial, go
with him to Canada, Australia, his equal in physical endurance, and
disregard of convention, yet mastered by his manhood, the mother of a
string of strong children whether they could be educated highly or not!
An unworthy temptation assailed him; as they arrived at an outstanding
relief camp he helped her from her saddle with a bold tenderness that
held an element of revenge, held her hand a little longer than was
strictly necessary, looked into her fine grey eyes, of purpose intently.
He could not tell if she recognised the unspoken signal; if she did she
ignored it, and presently they were deep in the object of their
expedition, tramping over hot, hard ground, watching the slow movements
of the ragged crowd--women and children breaking up dry clumps of soil,
carrying it on their heads in baskets; men and boys digging, scraping.
It was like an ants' nest without the energy and diligence of those
insects, for the workers were weak and apathetic, only looking forward,
as was natural, to the distribution of food and money that was to
follow.

Flint was on the look out for bullying among the overseers, for petty
pilfering on the part of the distributors of supplies; he listened
patiently to complaints, investigated grievances, and entirely forgot
Miss Baker except when she asked questions or got in his way. She
followed him for the most part silently, unobtrusively, and the morning
was well advanced before it suddenly struck him that his companion must
be feeling the need of refreshment. They were a long way from
headquarters, far from any place of accommodation; the sun was
overpowering; he noted that she looked tired and hot, he himself felt
fagged. His inspection was not yet completed. Never mind, he could
return this evening and finish it at the price of a little extra
pressure and exertion.

He took out his watch. "Look here," he said penitently, "you must be
pretty well done. Let us get back as quick as we can and have a good
breakfast in my camp."

She hesitated; if he could have seen into her mind she was thinking of
the kind of meal she might expect on her return to Miss Abigail's tents
(boiled rice and pulse, and perhaps a stew that had seen service
already). She was despising herself because the temptation was strong to
accept the invitation, and not altogether on account of the better fare.

"Wouldn't it be proper for you to breakfast with me alone?" he asked
provocatively.

"I wasn't thinking of that!" she exclaimed with scorn, and added, not
quite honestly: "I was only wondering if Miss Abigail would be keeping
breakfast waiting for me----" She knew perfectly well that Miss Abigail
would not.

"She knows you are with me, I suppose?"

"Oh, yes----"

"Then why worry? Come along."

On their way back she asked him: "You do this kind of thing every day?"

"Certainly. It's my job."

"But you are paid for it," she remarked vindictively.

"One must live, though perhaps in my case you don't see the necessity.
Anyway I get no extra pay, so it's not for pure love of gain!"

"How do you mean? Weren't you ordered to do the work?"

"As it happens, no. I volunteered."

"Then where would you have been if you hadn't?"

"At Simla perhaps, or somewhere away from the famine area in my own
province."

"Then you don't belong to this part?"

"No, I've been lent."

"At your own request?"

"Haven't I just said so?"

For a space she was silent. Then she said grudgingly: "After all, it's
nothing so very wonderful!"

"I quite agree. I lay no claim to doing anything wonderful. Now _you_,
on the other hand, have left a comfortable home and quite a different
kind of life at, I am sure, an enormous sacrifice, to come out and _help
India_!"

She winced obviously, and he enjoyed her discomfiture; yet his
conscience smote him, for he queried inwardly if he would have been here
at all but for the fateful happenings at Rassih! At the same time he did
not intend to enlighten Miss Baker on that point. For the sake of other
Englishmen who had given their services in this terrible affliction
without reserve, better let her believe that he had been actuated solely
by a stern sense of duty. The result of his work was the same, he had
foregone advancement, was out of the running, over-working himself
without hope of reward in the future. If he were not on the spot someone
else would be; the whole thing was general, not individual. England was
doing her duty by India comprehensively, he was but a fly on the wheel,
and he neither desired nor expected special recognition. But he felt
entitled to exact just approbation, on these grounds, from this
arrogant girl who, in her way, represented a certain section of public
opinion at home.

Save for a few desultory remarks on the scenery she said little more as
they urged their horses onward, but he noted a new diffidence in her
attitude; she was less aggressive, a little softer, and despite his
contempt for her outlook on Indian affairs he could not forbear to take
advantage of her weakening. He talked seriously, earnestly, of the
problems and peoples of the country, set forth their helpless dependence
on disinterested rule, defended British enterprise; and to his
satisfaction she listened. Through it all he watched her clever,
expressive face; how she showed her feelings!--an undisciplined nature.
One moment he saw hesitation, doubt of her own judgment; the next
incredulity, impatience of his arguments; again a little light of
enthusiasm in her eyes, albeit reluctant, as he spoke of the long line
of heroes who had made India what she was--prosperous, peaceful, secure,
in so far as such a vast and complex country could be secure, unless
danger was fostered from within.... She had a good heart if her brain
was ill-trained, falsely developed; he wondered what her childhood had
been like, how she had been brought up, and later, as they were seated
at breakfast in his tent, he asked her if she had ever been at school.

"Oh, yes, the ordinary thing, a rotten place at Brighton--all music and
French and dancing. You see, we are very rich people! My father is a big
manufacturer, he began life with the proverbial half-crown in his
pocket. We are not blue-blooded at all, I can assure you! My mother was
the daughter of a small artisan. To the day of her death, a few years
ago, she hated late dinner, and was afraid of the servants. I firmly
believe she died, poor dear, because she had to live in an atmosphere
that was too much for her. She couldn't stand the strain when my father
bought a place in the country and a house in London, and she was obliged
to entertain and meet people she had never been accustomed to. She was a
victim to the intermediate stage. In time, of course, all the big places
will be in the hands of go-ahead men like the pater who have made their
own fortunes, and the idle rich will disappear."

"What about the descendants of the go-ahead men?" put in Philip. "Have
you any brothers?"

"Yes, two----"

"And are they working for their livings?"

"Well," she moved uneasily, "one is in the Guards and the other is still
at Oxford----"

"And you were sent to an expensive school for young ladies at Brighton?
In a few generations, I suppose, you will be ousted from your big place
in your turn!"

"But we know how to take care of our money. It won't be squandered in
racing and cards and dissolute living."

"How do you know? Doesn't it depend on the individual? There are plenty
of pedigree landlords who are models of stewardship and right thinking,
doing their duty by the country and their responsibilities, just as
there are self-made men who are selfish and hard and tyrannical. It
isn't entirely a question of birth and heredity. I am of opinion that if
a man with an inherited position and property is false to his trust he
should be deprived of it by law, but when he does his best he should be
protected from attacks that are prompted more often by jealousy than by
concern for the poor. What do the majority of self-made men go for, once
they are 'made'? Titles and 'places.' Isn't it true?"

The girl crumbled the toast on her plate with restless fingers.
"Everything is all wrong," she burst out presently. "My father won't see
that we ought to keep only just enough for ourselves and share the rest
with the people who have helped him to make his money. Why should we
have an estate in the country and a sort of palace in London, while our
workmen are living in slums! It's abominable. I admit we are as bad in
our way as the families that can trace their descent for hundreds of
years and look upon their lands and their tenants as just mediums of
supply for their luxuries and amusements. It will always be the same, I
suppose!"

"It has been the same since the beginning of the world," said Flint,
"each man for himself. It's human nature. Have some more coffee?"

"Yes, please. It's delicious. Miss Abigail seems to think it's wrong to
have decent food. Why she and her kind aren't all dead from poisoning I
can't imagine."

"The survival of the fittest, perhaps."

"Their hearts and their souls are bound up in the work, and their
stomachs don't seem to matter. I feel I am horribly material and
greedy. Perhaps I haven't a soul or a heart, only a stomach!"

"In that case you wouldn't be out here," he suggested for her comfort,
"giving your time and your money in a good cause."

"I don't want to take credit for that. I am beginning to see that I may
have come out with a mistaken motive, not so much to do my little bit
over the famine as to find fault with what seemed to me an autocratic
mode of government. If all Indian officials were like you----"

"Like me!" Philip gave a bitter little laugh. "I may also have had my
motive in doing famine work apart from the welfare of the people. We are
all actuated by motives, principally selfish and private."

She finished her coffee. "Anyway," she said, rising, "I am glad we have
met, though you have upset my ideas and made me feel horrid when I
thought I was such an angel of mercy and reform! I am afraid I am very
conceited, but it is so nice to feel superior and generous!"

He saw tears in her eyes, and he took her outstretched hand in true
comradeship, ashamed of his attempt that morning to play upon her
natural instincts. "Don't bother about motives," he said in friendly
understanding, "go on with your blessed work. We are all doing what we
can for the people of this great old country, and believe me they aren't
insensible to our efforts. They know in their hearts. Some day they will
stand by us and give all they can in recognition of what we have done in
the past for them. The test is bound to come, and whoever gets the
credit doesn't matter. The result will be our reward. The only fear is
that all the drudgery and the sacrifice may be undone, go for nothing,
wrecked by a clique composed of self-seekers, encouraged by those who
have quite other ends to gain."

They left the tent together. He helped her into her saddle, and watched
her ride off attended by the syce who would bring back the chestnut; the
Honourable Dorothy Baker--born of the people, reared as an aristocrat,
who had set out to patronise those among whom such an anomaly was
impossible, unthinkable! How invaluable might be the zeal of her kind
rightly inspired and directed in the cause of India, could they only
divest themselves of the very arrogance they were so anxious to impute
to the men who were guarding the safety of the brightest jewel in the
crown of England....

For the next few hours Flint buried himself in papers. The heat and the
dust and the flies were distracting; he found it hard to fix his mind on
his work, and his thoughts wandered perversely. He remembered he had not
yet written his weekly letter to his mother; it had been so difficult to
write naturally after the upheaval at Rassih, he had felt such a
hypocrite--allowing his parents to infer that in volunteering for famine
work he had been prompted solely by a sense of duty; yet to tell them
the truth was beyond him. He pictured the old people in their
comfortable South Kensington home; his father always busy over local
charities and municipal boards and councils. Major-General Sir Philip
Flint had not shed his energy and public spirit with his retirement from
Indian service. Dear old chap!--white haired, courtly, ever ready to
listen when people came to him with grievances, real or imaginary; and
the mater, with her large circle of old Indian friends, her bazaars, and
her tea parties, and the never ending stream of visitors she was always
so ready to "put up," people just arrived from India, old friends
settled in the country who were intent on a week's shopping; hospitality
was in her bones. She would have loved to harbour grandchildren. Philip
knew how she regretted that his sister was not the wife of an Indian
civilian, or an Indian Army man, though her marriage to a prominent
specialist in Harley Street had been highly satisfactory, as Lady Flint
admitted; of course, she would say, it was a comfort to feel that Grace
was so well provided for, but Grace lived in such a different world from
their own--a world composed of public people, people connected with the
stage, and literature, and art, politics, the law; no dull old Generals,
or members of the Indian Council, and so on for Grace! and there were no
babies to come and spend the day with Granny, to be taken to the
seaside, to be fussed over and spoiled.... Her great hope now, as she
told him in her letters, was that Philip would marry some dear girl
whose family, like his own, had served the Indian Government for
generations, so that they would all understand each other and carry on
the old traditions comfortably, friends in every sense. Grace's friends
and in-laws were a sort of nervous terror to poor Lady Flint. What
would be her feelings, questioned her son as he sat dreaming of his
mother in his tent, so far away from her, could she know the truth,
could she realise that her hopes of such a daughter-in-law would never
be fulfilled so long as Stella Crayfield claimed his heart; and that
would be for always--till he died....

The pen dropped from his fingers, he leaned back in his chair, drowsy,
inert. Jacob was snoring in a corner; from without came the ceaseless
murmur of the concourse awaiting his decisions, and on his table lay
such piles of papers still to be examined. From sheer weariness he fell
asleep and dreamed of Stella, of their hopeless love, and mingled with
it all was the memory of Dorothy Baker, vigorous, purposeful, arresting.
He seemed to be standing between the two girls at the base of a long
flight of steps; they were urging him upward, but he felt tired,
slack-limbed, heavy-hearted; he wanted to rest. The steps were so steep,
high as a pyramid of Egypt; he could not see the top, it was lost in a
haze of luminous light. "Go on, go on," they were saying; they were
holding each other's hands, as it seemed to him conspiring to urge him
forward. "Go on; they have all gone up in their turn--look! some are
already at the top, some have died on the way, some have lost
everything, but never mind--go on, go on...."

And he struggled, lifting his feet to the steps that were rough and
burning, to find himself in the midst of a ghostly pageant. Near him was
a little old man with dim tragic eyes, dressed in a blue coat and knee
breeches. Where had he seen him before? There was a world of sorrow, of
bitter disappointment in the small, bowed figure, so pathetic, yet
breathing a spirit of wisdom and untiring tenacity. "Who are you, little
old man, tell me who you are?" Philip heard himself asking. And faintly,
as though borne on the hot west wind, came the whisper of a name--was it
Warren Hastings? A wrinkled yellow hand was raised, pointing upward....
A few more steps; now he was pushing through a motley host all strangely
garbed. Some of them held up a Cross and a Book, some displayed tokens
of trade; there were women with empty arms, weeping for the husbands and
the children they had lost, yet glorying in the sacrifice; and a band of
people, half English half Indian, who had given their lives in the cause
of their great two parents. They were lining the ladder, the stiff,
steep ladder.... Someone stepped out from the crowd and laid an
encouraging hand on his arm: "Go on, my boy, fight! There is nothing
like fighting!" and to his horror Philip saw that the speaker's throat
was cut, that he held in his hand a little penknife and a pen, just a
quill pen.... Who was it? Who was it had ended his life in a moment of
mad impulse, the fine brain snapping with the strain and the fervour of
work and responsibility? Ah, now he remembered; it was Clive, great
Clive! so noble, so strong in his influence and judgment, in his making
of Indian history. Always a fighter, even from his schoolboy days....
What a pitiful end to a brave career! and yet what matter when the task
had been accomplished, victories won; at least he had but sought peace
and repose in his own way and at his own time. The hand that held the
fatal little knife was also waving him upward, pointing to the top....
With him were others, ghosts from the past, whispering names, magical
names, that lived not only in the memories of those of their own race
and colour but in the hearts of the people they had served and fought
for, and saved; also great fighters with dusky faces and flashing eyes,
faithful supporters, fearless and fierce, without whose allegiance all
the strife and the sacrifice might have been useless; one in spirit with
their leaders, East and West bound together by one high aim--that of
justice and right.... "Don't fail us," they chorused. "Keep going, give
of your best as we did before you!" And they waved their swords and
their scimitars, and the Cross, driving him upward, till at the summit
he saw a speck of light that, as he climbed, grew in brilliance, took
shape, and formed itself into letters of fire: "_Star of India_."

He cried: "What can I do? I am only one of a crowd, a fly on the wheel!"
The sound of his own voice wakened him; he stood up, still dazed,
haunted by the fantastic dream. Jacob was snoring in the corner; hoarse
voices murmured outside; a swirl of hot dust and wind shook the tent.
Mechanically Flint sorted his papers, put on his hat, and went forth
into the hot stillness of the evening.



