

Three days later cholera broke out on the relief works.

During the afternoon a woman had arrived with a dead, monkey-like infant
in her arms and a dilapidated little family clinging to her skirts, only
herself to curl up and die in the heartbreaking fashion common to the
stricken native, haplessly, silently, without struggle or protest.
Before dawn the demon let loose among a weakened multitude had begun to
pick off victims, here in a triangle, there in a semicircle, again in a
neat zigzag, as if with mathematical malice and caprice....

Flint, roused at daybreak by the fatal news, worked for hours in
conjunction with the medical officer, dosing, segregating, attending to
the removal of the dead, striving to stem the panic that might drive the
people to scatter over the countryside, spreading the disease. Then,
after a hasty breakfast, he rode off to Miss Abigail's camp with the
intention of urging Miss Baker to seek some other field of activity in
view of the present danger. He encountered Laban, the Bible teacher,
nervous and voluble, outside the principal tent, and was informed by him
that the two ladies had gone forth the previous morning to visit a small
outpost in connection with the Mission some few miles distant, having
arranged to remain there for the night. They had not yet returned.

"This is a very bad sickness!" added Laban. "How shall we all escape
with our lives--and my grandmother dying in Cawnpur, calling, and
calling for my presence!"

"Meantime," suggested Philip, left cold in regard to the grandmother,
"hadn't you better go and help with the children whose parents are dying
or dead? There's a good supply of tinned milk, and it's got to be served
out quickly."

The teacher's flabby brown face paled to a sickly hue. He swallowed
hard, and his lips moved. Philip fancied he caught the word
"photograph." Probably the wretched Laban, unable to divest himself of
the fear that a portion of his spirit had already gone from him with the
taking of his picture, felt he was doomed unless he could flee to his
home.

"Look here, old chap," went on Flint, prompted by sympathetic
understanding, "aren't you a soldier of Christ, ready to fight for your
own people?"

He asked the question with a certain grim amusement at his own recourse
to missionary diction; but presently the amusement turned to respectful
admiration as Laban shivered, hesitated, then, without further ado or
explanation, marched off in the direction of the camp.

Inwardly Flint salaamed to the shambling figure of this "soldier of
Christ." He said to himself: "By Jove, that's a feather in the
missionary cap!"

He had turned his horse's head, when the sight of a little cloud of dust
in the distance caused him to halt, and out of the dust-cloud appeared a
hooded bullock cart, crawling, bumping over the rough ground at a
snail's pace. He waited, wondering how the energetic Miss Baker could
bear with such leisurely travel, since patience was hardly one of her
gifts. The bullocks must have taken hours covering the distance. When at
last the vehicle pulled up at the camp a flushed and fuming young person
scrambled from beneath the hood.

"Thank goodness!" exclaimed Miss Baker, shaking the dust from her
clothes and stretching her cramped limbs. "Hullo, Mr. Flint!" Her face
brightened at sight of him. "What do you want?"

"Good morning, had a nice drive?" He smiled at the grimace that was her
answer, and dismounted.

"I want to speak to Miss Abigail." It had occurred to him that Miss
Abigail's powers of persuasion might prove more effective than his own
in the matter of counselling change of air for Miss Baker, the girl
being more or less under her authority. Truth to tell, he rather shrank,
with masculine cowardice, from a task that he anticipated would involve
something of a scene.

"Here she is, then--what's left of her after that awful journey!" There
was plenty of Miss Abigail left; the stout, square figure clambered
backwards from the cart, and he took comfort from the fat, kindly face
and brave little eyes. He drew her aside.

"Bad news," he said; "we've got cholera in the works!"

"Ah! so it has come! I don't know which I have been dreading most, that
or smallpox. Well, we must all turn to and do our best."

"But what about Miss Baker? She oughtn't to be allowed to stay----"

"Why not? She has put her hand to the plough, and surely you don't
expect her to turn back?"

He felt annoyed, disconcerted. "It's all right for us," he deprecated,
"but Miss Baker should go."

"Well then, you had better tell her to do so. Frankly I shan't be sorry
if she takes your advice. Amateurs are more bother than they are worth
in my line of work. But _I_ can't urge her to bolt!"

"Don't you feel responsible for her safety? A girl out here alone----"

"She came of her own free will, as far as I know, and was handed over to
me by the Charitable Relief Fund Committee. I didn't ask for her. But
now she's here I consider she should take the rough with the smooth like
the rest of us. I will leave you to settle the question."

With a nod and an exasperating smile of unsympathetic comprehension Miss
Abigail stumped off to her tent.

Miss Baker approached. "What has happened?" she asked. "You look
peevish. Don't cry!"

"I've been telling Miss Abigail she ought to send you away at once."

"And are you so miserable because she has refused or consented? Why
should I be sent away? What have I done?"

"Cholera has started among the people," he told her bluntly, "and you
must pack up and be off, unless you want to add to our anxieties!"

Could he believe his eyes? Instead of the torrent of lofty expostulation
he had expected, and hoped successfully to combat, the girl simply
showed him the tip of her tongue. "There!" she added defiantly after
this vulgar exhibition.

"Do, for Heaven's sake, listen to reason----" he began, irately.

"Don't waste time," she interrupted. "I know what you want me to hear,
but I can't wait for your words of wisdom. I must make haste to pack and
run away as fast as I can!"

She darted towards Miss Abigail's tent, throwing him a glance of
derisive revolt over her shoulder. He was helpless. Anyway he had but
done what seemed to him his duty, and he had been given no chance of
emphasising the fact that in leaving the camp she would be sparing him
and Miss Abigail additional responsibility.... Yet he doubted if any
argument under the sun would prevail with her now. To remain and risk
death would, of course, enhance the feeling of superiority and
benevolence that on her own admission she found so pleasant!

He rode back to the works determined to put her out of his mind. He had
more to think of, he told himself, than a tiresome, pig-headed girl; but
later in the day, when he caught sight of her with Miss Abigail and the
Bible-teacher herding a flock of women and children into a new-made
enclosure, his conscience murmured reproaches. At least Dorothy Baker's
pluck was undeniable, even though it might be the pluck of ignorance and
self-will....

That was a dreadful night. At times the hot, still air rang with the
weeping and wailing of mourners, piteous cries that rose and fell; the
silences that intervened seemed even worse--while the fight with death
went on. Now and then it appeared as if the fatal scourge had been
checked in its merciless progress; then again, as though leaping the
barriers, it would break out in some quarter hitherto free. Luckily
remedies held out, and more were expected in answer to urgent telegrams.
By dawn further medical help had arrived, and as the sun rose, fierce
and cruel, Flint felt justified in snatching a rest. He was roused from
heavy sleep by a message, a message scribbled in obvious haste and
agitation by Miss Baker from the Mission camp.

"Please come quickly; it's Miss Abigail."

An ominous summons! Fearing its import, he obeyed it without delay,
ordered a horse to be saddled, threw on his clothes, and rode rapidly.
Arrived, he found, within a sagging little sleeping tent, Miss Baker
seated beside a narrow camp-bed on which, as he perceived at first
glance, lay a dying woman. The once round, tanned face of the lady
missionary was wet and grey, so strangely altered; the sturdy form was
twisted and shrunken. A horrible odour pervaded the atmosphere, mingled
with the smell of drugs and straw and canvas. At the foot of the bed a
dishevelled ayah crouched terrified, weeping. On the rough, uneven
drugget was scattered a confusion of clothes, a couple of tin basins, a
shabby Bible, a notebook. The solitary camp table was covered with
bottles and coarse crockery.

Dorothy Baker turned to Philip Flint; she was pale, trembling a little,
yet wonderfully self-controlled.

"It was so sudden!" she faltered, biting her white lips. "This morning
she was quite well, full of energy and plans. We had come back for some
breakfast, and she was taken ill. Laban fetched the doctor. He stayed as
long as he could, and she got better. He said he thought she would pull
through. I did everything he told me. But now, see! I have sent for him
again----"

Flint laid his finger on a cold wrist. Clearly it was a case of sudden
collapse, beyond hope; even as he felt the faint, racing pulse it grew
feebler, fluttered spasmodically.... He heard the girl's voice in his
ear, a choking whisper: "Is she going? Is it the end?"

He nodded, and the whisper went on: "Just before you came she spoke. She
said she _knew_, and she wanted to be buried under the tree, under the
peepul tree...."

He nodded again. She poured something into a glass and held it out to
him. "Try," she urged, "perhaps she could take it."

To please her he tried, though he knew it was useless. What a pitiful
death scene--the cramped, untidy little tent, the coarse bedclothes, the
scanty furniture; the only ornament, if so it could be called, a text
printed in large black letters on a piece of cardboard, hung to a nail
on the yellow tent-pole: "Thy Rod and Thy Staff They Comfort Me."

Yet Philip felt it was all ennobled by the sound faith, the unswerving
purpose of the strong, simple soul whose work on earth was over. For a
few moments there was silence; even the stifled, convulsive sobbing of
the ayah crouched at the foot of the bed had ceased; the woman hid her
face in her wrapper. Then, presently, with a long-drawn sigh, a gallant
spirit passed to rest. For Ann Abigail, ardent Christian, brave worker
in the cause of alien souls and bodies, no more weary hot weathers, no
more disappointment, discomfort, sacrifice. And as Philip gazed down on
the blunt features that already were almost beautiful in their repose he
found himself picturing Miss Abigail heading a band of helpless,
bewildered ghosts, leading them from the camp and the works to regions
where suffering, fear and want were unknown....

He remembered Dorothy Baker, and looked round. She was still standing
close beside him, silent, her eyes fixed on the dead face; now she
swayed, put her hand to her throat: "I have never--I have never seen
anyone die----" Then, aware of his concern for her, she added
reassuringly, "I'm all right, I'm not going to faint."

"Come into the other tent; where's your hat?"

She did not seem to know. He looked about, found his own, and held it
umbrella-wise over her head as he guided her quickly through the
burning, midday glare to the living tent that was hardly bigger than the
one they had left. She made no resistance, sat down at his bidding, and
drank the brandy he gave her from his flask. Then he stood watching her
anxiously as the colour came slowly back to her lips and cheeks. His
mind was working swiftly. Somehow he must get the girl away; she had had
a severe shock, her vitality was lowered, he dreaded the
consequences....

Footsteps and voices outside drew him to the door of the tent, and for
the next few hours he and the doctor were busy over such arrangements as
were possible for the funeral. The work finished, Flint sent off a
messenger mounted on a camel to the railway junction with a couple of
telegrams. One was to the headquarters of the Mission in the nearest
station, the other was to the wife of the Magistrate, whom he happened
to know slightly. He had evolved a plan for the benefit of Miss Baker,
and he only trusted she would fall in with it. All the time she had
remained in her tent, effaced herself, for which he was grateful to her;
perhaps she would be equally sensible when he told her what he had
done....

By sundown a rough coffin was ready, composed of packing-cases, a grave
had been dug beneath the big peepul tree, and a melancholy little
procession started, headed by the bullock shigram that bore Miss Abigail
on her final journey. Flint had fetched Miss Baker at the last moment,
he had promised her he would do so, and they walked together behind the
shigram. Laban, crying bitterly, the native doctor, one or two
subordinates followed, and the dead woman's servants; behind them again
came a straggling crowd of people from the works and the camp.

Flint read the burial service. Dorothy Baker stood by his side; now and
then she shivered despite the heavy heat of the evening; he saw her
glance furtively at the scraps of her handkerchief that hung conspicuous
from the branches above their heads. He knew she must be picturing, as
he was, the scene of but a few evenings back, when Miss Abigail had
knelt praying among the roots of the tree.... The air was thick and
sultry, perhaps Miss Abigail was right, perhaps rain was not so far
off.... The setting sun threw a red glow over the land, already the
fireflies danced in the branches, the leaves whispered and rustled; two
or three bats flew from the foliage, skimming over the open grave and
the heap of sulphur-coloured soil at the side.... Now the last words had
been read, now the coffin, wrapped in a blanket, was lowered into the
shallow trench, the dry earth was shovelled over it by the scavenger
coolies of the village, and the gathering, all but Philip Flint and the
English girl and Laban, departed. At a sign from Flint the coolies
collected some of the stones that lay about and piled them upon the
grave.

"Oh! she would hate that!" cried the girl impulsively. "The idols, the
carvings----"

"There must be some protection," Flint told her reluctantly; "you see,
jackals and other animals----"

"I understand." She turned away, gazing sadly over the misty, red plain.
"And we have to leave her here by herself! Oh! I can't bear it--India is
horrible, horrible!"

For the first time she broke down, leaned, weeping, against the trunk
of the tree that, maybe, had seen other human sacrifices offered at its
foot. Flint waited for a moment; then he went to her, took her hand
gently, protectively.

"Don't grieve too much," he said. "She is all right. She would have
asked nothing better than to give her life for her work. We are not
leaving _her_ here, remember!"

"I wish I could think"--she paused, flung out her hands passionately. "I
can't believe anything; I always wondered how she could. And here am I
alive and useless, and she has gone. It seems so unfair!"

"I expect she was very tired," said Flint simply, "and is glad to rest.
Come back to the camp; Laban will see that it is all finished properly,
and I want to talk to you."

They started. It was now almost dark, and he set himself as they went to
tell her what he had arranged--that she should take Miss Abigail's
personal belongings back to the Mission headquarters.

"The things are all ready," he confessed. "I told the ayah to pack them.
There were very few, just a writing-case and a little locked box and
some papers and notebooks; one or two photographs, her Bible and Prayer
Book. The camp things can all follow later. Of course the clothes she
was wearing, and the bed and so on, have had to be burnt, that was
necessary; the Mission people will understand."

At first she said nothing. He went on hurriedly: "I can drive you to
the junction; there's a train----"

"You want me to go?" she asked below her breath, "to go now, to-night?"

His heart sank. Did she mean to refuse? "It's only right. She would have
wished you to go, you know she would."

"But do you wish it?" She bent towards him, trying to see his face in
the gathering dusk.

"Only because I know I ought to send you away."

Silence again for a space. "I telegraphed to the Magistrate's wife as
well. She is a kind woman, she will take you in if you would prefer it
to the Mission House, I am sure."

There was a pathetic little catch in her voice as she answered drearily:
"Yes, I suppose I must go. Oh, how everything has altered, just in a few
hours!"

"That's India."

"I feel so horribly alone."

"It will be different when you get into the station. I wish I could go
with you all the way, but I must stick here till this epidemic is over
and things are working properly. Then I go on to another district, where
I hear matters are pretty bad. Goodness knows when all the trouble will
end."

"I wonder if we shall ever meet again?"

"I hope so. You'll write, won't you, and let me know your plans?"

"Yes, of course. And--shall I go on writing?"

"Would you? I should like it. Sometimes I feel 'horribly alone' too."

"You aren't happy."

"No; I am more alone than you are." They had reached the camp. His trap,
which he had ordered beforehand to meet them, was waiting.

"Just pack what you will want for the next day or two," he advised. "I
will see that everything else is sent after you at once. You must come
and have some dinner with me, and then we'll start for the junction.
It's a long drive. The train goes about midnight."

She obeyed him with a touching docility. For the rest of that curious
evening she might have been a child, leaning on his judgment, listening
to his directions, trusting him utterly. He knew she ate the food that
was set before her because he urged her to do so, accepted his brandy
flask and the escort of his old bearer for the journey, got into the
trap without a word when the moment came for their departure. Jacob
leapt at the wheels in an agony of apprehension that he was to be left
behind.

"Can't he come too?" she asked; and the panting, whimpering Jacob was
hoisted on to her lap. The moon was rising as they set off, a swollen
red moon whose light irradiated the veil of dust that hung over the
spreading, irregular earthworks, the lines of sheds, the outlying groups
of tents. Here and there a few spidery thorn trees showed black and
scanty--it was as if a fire had swept the locality and was still
smouldering. A hum of voices, the thin wailing of women and children,
rose and hung in the hot mist....

The trap rocked over the uneven ground, now sinking into soft powdery
soil, now jerking against clods of earth, hard as iron. They left the
works and the camps behind them, and headed for the grand trunk road
marked by an avenue of great trees in the distance; passed through a
village that was silent, deserted; most of the inhabitants had sought
refuge on the relief works. On the outskirts they encountered an
ash-smeared figure, practically naked, with long, matted hair and
upraised arms, who called after them--cursings or blessings, what matter
which!

The comparatively smooth surface of the grand trunk road came as a
blessed relief, and they spun along swiftly, between the rows of giant
trees, avoiding sleepy carts that crawled in the middle of the highway,
passing silent, plodding little bands of foot travellers. Neither of
them felt inclined for conversation; the hot, still air through which
they clove, the rhythmical beat of the pony's hoofs, lulled their
senses; even Jacob had long since ceased to fidget and demand
attention.... As in a dream they arrived at the junction that with its
satellites of ugly square buildings appeared to have been dropped
without purpose on to a barren plain, and found themselves in the midst
of a clamouring throng of humanity; every caste seemed to be
represented, from the shaven, high-featured Brahmin priest to the
humblest, uncleanest outsider. A proof, so often quoted by the
inexperienced observer, of the power of progress! Yet, while the
"twice-born" would journey cheek by jowl with the pariah, making use of
the railway for his own convenience, in reality it brought them no
nearer to bridging the gulf. A few oblations, ceremonial ablutions, a
liberal religious offering, and the high-caste traveller would feel
cleansed, soul and body, from the evil effect of such contamination....

The interior of the station was suffocating. Philip shouldered a way for
his companion through the crowd to a waiting-room reserved for
"Europeans only," where they found a family of Eurasians already
installed, bundles innumerable, a pack of fretful children, a litter of
domestic belongings spread over the floor.

Philip backed hastily from the entrance. "This won't do," he said. "We
must try the refreshment-room."

It was scarcely more inviting, but at least they had the place to
themselves, save for a couple of slovenly-looking servants who were
flicking crumbs and dead flies from the table laid with dirty
appointments. A dingy punkah began to wave jerkily, moving the
ill-smelling air. Nauseated, weary, miserable because she was about to
part from the only man who had ever appealed to her heart as well as to
her mind, Dorothy Baker sat staring at the pretentious electroplated
epergne set in the middle of the table, coloured tissue paper ruffled
about its base.

How sordid it all was! She dared not look at Philip Flint for fear she
should lose her self-control; the lump in her throat was almost
strangling....

To Philip her silence, her depression, merely indicated that she was
pitifully tired, worn out with the trying events of the day, and no
wonder, poor girl! He felt helpless, at his wits' end to know what more
he could do for her.

"It won't be long now," he said in hopeful desperation, looking at his
watch. "The train ought to be here in a few moments."

"In a few moments," she echoed mechanically.

Then, from outside, came the clangour of metal striking a suspended
length of rail, the Indian equivalent of the station bell, announcing
the train's arrival.

"Here she is!" Philip rose, half relieved, half reluctant. They plunged
into the yelling throng on the platform. Flint's old bearer spread the
Miss-sahib's bedding on an empty seat in the ladies' compartment that
had only one other occupant, a mummy-like form, fast asleep.

"Now you're all right." Philip looked into the carriage. "You'd better
get in and settle yourself for the night."

She held out her hand. "Please don't wait," she said formally, avoiding
his gaze. "Good-byes are so horrid, and they say it's unlucky to see the
last of a traveller!"

"Unlucky for me to see the last of you. I shall miss you."

"Oh, no, you won't," she said sharply. "Good-bye, and very many thanks
for all your kindness."

She got into the train. Through the window he saw her busying herself
with her bag. She did not even look up as the train passed out of the
station. Chilled and puzzled he turned away. What an odd girl! Her
curious behaviour, her grey eyes and freckled eager face filled his
thoughts as he drove back to his camp in the hot moonlight.



