

"Oh! How slack I feel. Dances are the devil!" Maud Matthews yawned and
stretched amid a nest of cushions in a long chair. "I'm sure I must look
about sixty. Do I, Stella?"

She appealed to her friend who at that moment joined her in the veranda
of the Swiss Chalet-like habitation perched on the hill-side. Clear
midday sunshine blazed over the terraced garden thick with dahlias,
crimson and purple, orange-red, yellow, a wild, luxuriant growth. Pots
of chrysanthemums fringed the veranda steps, an autumn odour pervaded
the atmosphere, a smell of ferns and moss and pungent evaporation. The
sky was like pale blue glass, and far, far away, beyond valleys and
rising ranges, glittered and sparkled the everlasting snows.

Outside, on the narrow pathway, young Richard was asserting himself in a
perambulator, attended by the long-suffering ayah who every few minutes
retrieved a woolly toy, handing it back to the small tyrant with
indulgent remonstrance. "Hai-yai! What is to be done with such a
malefactor! Must not throw; it is forbidden."

"Beat him," his mother advised lazily. "Beat him with a big stick."

"Dost harken?" warned the ayah. "One more throw, and see what will
befall!"

Instantly the woolly toy was again hurtled down among the dahlias, and
the child shrieked with mischievous glee.

"Aree! Narty!" the ayah picked up her petticoats and plunged into the
foliage.

Unperturbed by her son's misdemeanours, Mrs. Matthews turned once more
to her guest and began to patter nonsense. Truth to tell she was
nervously delaying the moment when Stella's questions must be answered.

"If possible, dear thing, you look even more dreadful than I do, though
you went home so early last night. I got back at some disreputable hour
and peeped into your room, but you were asleep. Really, to look at you,
one would imagine _your_ husband was coming up on leave next week
instead of mine. What on earth shall I do with Dick! He'll hate all my
men friends, and be rude to them, and expect me to break all my
engagements. I suppose we shall go to bed early and have long walks
before breakfast, and devote ourselves to young Richard with intervals
for arguments over domestic affairs----"

"Oh! to hear you," interrupted Stella with exasperation, "one would
think you didn't care one snap for Dick or that imp in the perambulator.
Why humbug with me of all people?"

"Yes, I know," in hasty apology. "I know I am lucky. Yet you have your
compensations. You are ever so much better looking than I am, and your
looks are of the sort that will last. Your nose, for example; it's a
nose for a lifetime! _You_ can amuse yourself with a clear conscience,
without feeling a pig, as I do when I flirt till all's blue. How I am to
suppress Bobbie Nash when Dick appears on the scene is a problem, and I
can't give the young owl a hint beforehand; that would be a bit too low!
Now, you and your old play-boy--even Dick couldn't make a fuss if it was
the General instead of Bobbie Nash!"

"Oh, Maud, do stop!" cried Stella, at the end of her endurance. Maud's
little excitements and intrigues were so trivial; no misery, no
heartache, lay beneath the surface of her frivolity. Stella knew well
enough that Maud loved her husband, and that once he was on the spot she
would be happy in his company, though in his absence the attentions of a
herd of irresponsible young men was as the breath of her nostrils. "How
can you go on gabbling like this when you know what I am longing to
hear?"

Last night she had fled from the ballroom, distraught by the sudden,
unexpected meeting with Philip. It had been beyond her to remain as if
nothing had happened. She was at a loss to interpret his demeanour, so
distant, so formal; did he intend her to understand that his feelings
had changed? She had relied upon Maud to find out; for hours she had
lain awake listening for Maud's return till, from sheer exhaustion, she
had fallen asleep, and, after all, Maud had not awakened her. Both of
them had slept late into the morning, and now Maud would only drivel
about her own silly affairs. The suspense was intolerable; she could
bear it no longer.

"Aren't you going to tell me _anything_?" she demanded furiously.

"Wait a moment." Mrs. Matthews rose from her long chair and went to kiss
her obstreperous offspring in the perambulator, gave some directions to
the ayah and banished the pair to another quarter of the garden out of
sight and hearing. Then she returned to her seat and faced Stella with
reluctance.

"It's rather difficult to tell you," she began. "That was why I was
putting it off. He has gone."

Stella flushed and paled. "Gone? Gone away from Surima--from--from me?"

Maud nodded. "Now, dear thing, be sensible. I assure you he hopes you
may have got over that unfortunate business between you. He wants to get
over it too. I don't say he has, any more than you have, altogether, but
you both will, given the chance. Isn't it best? You can't deny it,
Stella."

"Oh, Maud, what have you done?" Stella's voice rang sharp with pain and
reproach. Her disappointment was poignant. She had expected some
message, she hardly knew what, but something of solace and reassurance,
at the least that Philip wanted to see her alone. She had never dreamed
that he would not wish to see her.

"I haven't done anything," declared Maud defensively. "He saw for
himself that you weren't exactly pining away without him, and if you do
still care about him you ought to be thankful that he has gone off like
this without making further trouble for you or for himself. After all,
you wouldn't bolt with him when you had the chance, and quite right too!
And now you shouldn't want him to be a martyr any more than he wants you
to mope for the rest of your life."

Stella gazed at her blankly. Staunch friend though Maud was, how little
she understood. Oh, why had she not stayed on at the ball? She might
have got at the truth for herself. Instead, she had behaved like a fool,
like a coward; and so Philip had gone!

She burst out: "Tell me what he said, what you said. Tell me exactly.
Don't dare to keep anything from me."

"My dear girl, keep calm. You can't expect me to remember every single
word we uttered. I'm not trying to make mischief and muddles, like
people in stories. I simply told him how I had got you away from Rassih
and how ill you were, and he simply said that as you looked very happy
and well he thought the best thing he could do was to clear out, and I
agreed with him. I pointed out that you had learnt to enjoy yourself,
and that he couldn't blame you. He said he didn't. I must say I don't
wonder you fell in love with him, especially at Rassih. He is an awfully
good sort; but you know if he had stayed here now the whole thing would
have begun all over again, and been worse than ever. Buck up, Stella!
You had a lucky escape. I dare say I might have persuaded him to stay,
but I knew it was best not to. When you have thought it all over you'll
say I was right and be grateful, instead of looking as if you would like
to poke my eyes out!"

Stella sat miserably silent. There was nothing further to be said. It
would hardly be fair to accuse Maud of having done her an ill turn, but
at present she certainly could not bring herself to feel grateful. Sore
and wretched, she rose.

"I'm going for a walk before tiffin," she said abruptly.

"Keep out of the sun, then," advised Maud, "or you'll have a headache.
Remember it's the General's garden party this afternoon, and the club
dinner and theatricals to-night. Just put out the 'Not at home box,'
will you? I'm not fit to be seen this morning, and can't be bothered
with callers."

A little later Stella strolled along the pathway. She hung the
protective card-box on the trunk of the pine tree that guarded the small
domain; then she wandered up the steep incline towards an upper road
little frequented by the English community. It led to the back of the
hill, where as yet no bungalows had been erected, dwindling eventually
to a mere bridle path used by the hill people from far distant villages.
Once away from all sound of the station, she seated herself on a
moss-covered boulder and gazed gloomily over the blue valleys and the
opposite mountains that in the rarefied atmosphere looked so unnaturally
near. Jungle fowl were calling, crickets sang lustily among the ferns
that fringed the tree branches; a family of black monkeys crossed the
path and went crashing and chattering down the wooded precipice below;
round the shoulder of the hill trudged a stalwart hill-woman, a load of
charcoal on her back in a conical-shaped basket. She had a flat
Mongolian countenance, red colour in her brown cheeks, and her eyes were
like green agates; a heavy turquoise necklace hung round her neck. She
grinned a friendly greeting as she passed the forlorn figure seated by
the wayside, and Stella envied her. How contented and independent she
looked, though probably she had two or three husbands and led a hard
life of toil. At any rate, she was neither desolate nor oppressed. The
sound of her stately tramping died away, and at last, influenced
unconsciously by the solitude, the grand beauty of the landscape, the
purity of the air, Stella began to think more coherently, to think of
all she would have told Philip had he been beside her asking for her
confidence, anxious to know all that had befallen her since their
parting at Rassih. Then, though she had thought he was going out of her
life, the distress and the terror had been leavened by the conviction
that he loved her. This time he had gone of his own free will, ready to
forget her, wishing to forget her. It seemed years since he had called
to her that night in the big drawing-room. She seemed to hear his voice
now, charged with love and despair. And the memory of the time
intervening until Maud's arrival was like a long nightmare, followed at
Surima by a blank that, ill as she was, came as a dreamless, refreshing
sleep from which she had awakened to a world of diversion.

With returning health and the stimulation of Maud's company she had
begun to find solace in her freedom, in the power of her beauty, which
slowly she had learn to value. At first the attention she attracted came
to her as a genuine surprise, and all the dances, the parties, the
light-hearted gatherings proved a welcome refuge from depressing
thought. Finally she had plunged into the gay whirl with a will,
encouraged by Maud, living solely in the agreeable, intoxicating
present, banishing as far as possible the past from her mind, refusing
to look forward.

And in one second all the false ramparts she had erected around her had
crumbled to dust. One moment she had been laughing, free from care, the
next she had looked up in the midst of some careless banter to see
Philip--but what a different Philip, cold and callous and hard! Stella
did not doubt Maud's version of the conversation that had passed between
the two. It seemed clear enough that Philip shrank from renewal of the
past, and was it any wonder? She tried to be just to him, yet a feeling
of bitter resentment fought with her sense of fair play. Why, when she
had discovered that, given the opportunity, life could be enjoyed,
should he have come to disturb and distress her? Where, all this time,
had he been, what had he been doing? No word concerning him had reached
her. Of course, she understood that he had not known she was at Surima;
yet why, if he did not wish to meet her again, had he come up to her in
the ball-room? Surely it would have been simple enough to leave Surima
without allowing her to know he had been there at all. Was it partly for
her sake that he had, to quote Maud, "cleared out," or was it entirely
because he feared she might expect him to lay his heart at her feet once
more? Whatever the reason the result was the same. He had gone without a
word or a message that would have left her in possession of the truth.

Passionately she wished she had the power to wipe the whole incident
from her mind. Maud was right; she had her compensations; but of what
value would they be to her once she was back at Rassih? In another month
or less she must return to Robert, to the horrible old house, to Sher
Singh, and the loneliness, the dull round of petty happenings repeated
day after day.... A fierce defiance seized her; at least she had this
month before her; she could but make the best of it. Her heart hardened.
She looked up at the clear blue sky, watched an eagle soaring over the
valley, became conscious of the vast, sunny peace around her, drew in
long breaths of the wonderful air.... After all, she was young, she was
well; and when she returned to Rassih she would endeavour to recover her
influence with Robert. Once reassured of her loyalty he might allow her
to invite friends to stay with her, friends she had made at Surima,
might permit her to pay visits in return. Next year she would manoeuvre
to take a house of her own at Surima for the hot-weather months. With
such a prospect the coming winter could be endured. She realised that
Robert, on his part, had a grievance against her; undoubtedly she had
been a disappointment to him. She owed him some consideration; in his
way he had not been ungenerous; all this time at Surima he had kept her
well supplied with money, and if he had been glad to get rid of her was
it not only natural?

Well, she would continue to enjoy herself now, and then she would go
back and wheedle and coax and work upon Robert's weaknesses until she
could induce him to grant her liberty when occasion should arise. Let
Philip go hang. If he wished to forget her let him do so; she could play
the same game, and play it she would! Resolutely she turned her mind to
coming dissipations; the General's garden party this afternoon--she was
fully aware that the station regarded her as the special "favourite" of
Sir George Rolt. Subalterns made up to her with the idea that she held
the ear of the Chief; not only subalterns either, but more senior
aspirants to favour and promotion. The sense of prestige and power fed
the worst side of her nature, and, in addition, she liked Sir George
Rolt, whose free admiration raised her to a pinnacle of importance,
rendered her an object of envy among all the other women of a certain
type in the place who possessed any claim to attractions. To-night there
would be the Club dinner, with theatricals to follow; at both gatherings
she knew she would be the best looking, best dressed woman of the
throng, and her sore spirit took comfort in the conviction.

Stella wandered back to the little bungalow on the side of the hill
feeling as though she had drunk deep of some draught that stilled
trouble and pain for the time, however pernicious its after-effects.



