

The Swan Song of the Surima season took the form of a picnic--a truly
ambitious entertainment given by a moneyed merchant from Calcutta, whose
ideas of hospitality had apparently no boundaries. A banquet was
prepared in the vicinity of a famous waterfall some two miles below the
station; champagne vied with the waterfall itself in its volume and
flow; there was a band; Badminton nets had been erected on a convenient
plateau, and covetable prizes had been provided for the winners of an
improvised tournament of two a side; in addition every lady present was
to receive a gift--chocolates, scent, pretty, expensive trifles. High
spirits prevailed, and amid the gay, well-dressed assemblage of women
Mrs. Crayfield was pre-eminent.

Stella had won the first prize in the tournament, a jewelled bangle;
animated, flushed, she stood the centre of attention receiving
congratulations, protesting that her success was due only to her
handicap, and to the exertions of her partner in the game. "You all know
I can't play a bit!" she said laughing, radiant; the bangle was lovely,
everyone was so nice, nobody seemed to grudge her the little triumph; it
was all delightful.

"Never mind--you have won, no matter how!" chaffed the General. "Now
aren't you tired?" he added, lowering his voice. "Come for a stroll, to
get an appetite for tea!"

Adroitly he detached her from the crowd that had already begun to
disperse in groups and pairs. As Stella and Sir George moved off
together Maud and her husband went by; Dick Matthews had arrived at
Surima the previous evening, and Bobbie Nash, as some wag had remarked,
was nursing his nose in the background for the time being; the only
individual, perhaps, who was not altogether enjoying the picnic.

"Don't attempt to follow us!" called Maud as she passed Stella and the
General, and she looked back at them over her shoulder, pulled down her
mouth, cast up her eyes, then tucked her arm into Dick's and stepped out
beside him with an air of exaggerated virtue.

"Little cat!" exclaimed the General, highly entertained with her antics,
"as if we should want to follow them!" He glanced about, scanning
various directions in which they might hope to find privacy; and
presently they were climbing the slope of the mountain above the
waterfall to seat themselves on the trunk of a fallen tree screened by a
tangle of ferns, saplings, feathery bamboos, beneath the shade of the
oaks that rose densely behind them.

Sir George took out his cigarette case. "Well," he said with a resigned
sigh, "it's sad to think we shall all be scattered during the next ten
days. I wonder when and where you and I will meet again!"

"Goodness knows!" Privately Stella did not particularly care. "Don't let
us look forward."

Yet his words gave her a sense of depression after all the gaiety and
the glamour of the picnic luncheon and the surface excitement of the
tournament. She was tired, conscious of reaction; her spirits fell. She
would have preferred to sit silent, listening to the music of the
waterfall, the cheerful chirrup of the crickets, to be soothed by the
scenery and the soft evening sunshine, the peace and the remoteness of
the surroundings.

"Not look forward to our meeting again?" Reproachful astonishment was in
the General's tone as he leaned forward to look into her eyes. "Do you
mean to forget me, little girl?"

She was aware of a certain magic in his bold, strong face, in his
maturity, and experience of women and of the world. Stella felt
helpless, ensnared, yet the ensnarement was enticing, held a baleful
fascination. So often during these months at Surima she had felt it,
felt at the same time that it meant nothing serious; it was just a game,
but a game that Sir George knew so much better than she did how to play
without fear of disastrous result. More than once had he led her, as it
were, to the edge of the volcano; just a peep over and a timely
withdrawal into safety.

"Why don't you answer?" he laid his hand on hers; she moved her hand
quickly, yet, as before, not altogether unwilling to dally with the
moment that held a little thrill of excitement.

"Of course," she said demurely, "I don't want to forget you. Why should
I?"

"Well then, give me something to remember--that we can both remember to
the end of our days!"

His arm went round her; his face, his hard, handsome face, was close to
hers! he meant to kiss her, meant business this time--because it was
the last opportunity? And of a sudden Stella thought of Philip, of how
Philip had held her in his arms, had pressed his lips to hers....

"Don't!" she cried desperately, "don't! You can't understand--it's
impossible----"

"Why?" he inquired, intrigued. "Is there someone else?"

She let herself go, turned to him in her distress, with an instinct that
he would comprehend if he had but an inkling of her plight. "Yes," she
said tremulously, "there is, there was, someone else, and it's all so
hopeless, and miserable!"

He held out his hand, this time with friendly, almost fatherly
intention. "There! Poor child, how was I to know? Forgive me; I dare say
I've been a beast, but I meant no real harm. Tell me all about it, eh?"

Sir George felt as much curiosity as interest to hear the little story.
Surely she was too young, too inexperienced, to have had any serious
love affair; he was prepared to be secretly amused, as well as to show
adequate sympathy. Probably it was just some boy and girl romance, and
her parents had married her suitably to put an end to it.

"I can't talk about it," said Stella.

"Did it happen before, or after you were married?" he persisted.

She did not answer.

"Then it was after!"

She nodded reluctantly.

"And shall you see him again?" Clearly it was no one at Surima, since
he himself had been the favoured one of all her adorers.

"No, never!" said Stella vehemently.

"Well then, listen to my words of wisdom. Don't imagine at your age that
you won't fall in love again, but when you do remember to keep your head
if you can't keep your heart. The world is never well lost for any man's
sake, whatever the poets may say. If I'm not mistaken you have plenty of
grit; so don't allow circumstances to get the better of you. Take what
you can get out of life without losing your place in the ranks of the
righteous, or you'll be trampled into the dust. Love as much as you
like, but love wisely. Bide your time, Stella, my child; you'll forget
this lover, whoever he is, and there'll be plenty more. Break hearts all
over the place, they'll mend soon enough, and you'll have had your
amusement without paying for it. But don't make false steps and imagine
you can't suffer for them at the hands of the world. It's not good
enough, believe me!"

From one point of view Stella felt he was right; from another, and a
higher point, that his advocations were false. Had he told her to
remember her marriage vows, to be faithful in thought as well as in deed
to her husband, to shrink with shame from all thought of extracting
consolation by devious methods.... She almost laughed as she imagined
Sir George preaching such practice. Yet in substance his counsel was not
far removed from the course she had mapped out for herself that morning
on the hill side after her meeting with Philip in the ball-room; and
Maud had often said much the same thing, though not quite so plainly
perhaps. Truly she was between the devil and the deep sea; but which was
which? To do her duty by Robert honestly, squarely, meant a sort of
death in life--the deep sea? To play a part while seeking underhand
compensations--the devil?

"Look here," went on Sir George kindly. "Come and stay with me for the
race meeting at my headquarters this November. You shall have the time
of your life. A big party, all the prettiest women in the Province, and
you'll be the prettiest. You shall do hostess if you like. People might
talk, no doubt they do now, but that doesn't matter as long as they've
nothing to lay hold of. Is it a bargain?"

It was an alluring invitation. But could she accept it with any hope of
fulfilment? Perhaps--if she carried out her programme of false
conciliation where Robert was concerned.

"I'm not sure if I could get away," she said doubtfully.

"The husband?" queried Sir George smiling. "Aren't you clever enough to
get round him?"

Stella felt reckless. "Anyway, I'll try," she declared; and she
determined, if humanly possible, to succeed.

"Very well, leave it at that, and let us hope for the best. Count on me
to send you the right kind of letter, and we'll pull it off somehow.
Cheer up, my dear, never say die!" He patted her hand, and lit his
cigarette, persuaded her to take one too, and Stella felt comforted,
almost convinced that he and Maud were right--that in time she might
forget Philip; she had all her life before her in which to do so!


Someone was shouting below them; it was the summons to tea. Figures
emerged from all quarters, the valley resounded with voices, privacy was
at an end. Stella rose readily. "We must go," she said, glad of the
interruption; and they scrambled and slipped their way back to the
meeting place. At sunset a procession started toward the station--a
phalanx of dandies and ponies and more Spartan pedestrians who felt
equal to the climb. It was almost dark when Stella and her friends
reached their perch on the hill side, tired yet cheerful, ready for a
rest if hardly for dinner after the superabundance of fare they had
lately enjoyed. Maud rushed to the nursery, Dick hung about, smoking, in
the veranda; Stella was making for her bedroom when one of the servants
accosted her with a salver in his hand on which lay a yellow envelope.

"Telegram, Memsahib," he said stolidly; she opened it with a qualm of
foreboding. It was signed "Antonio," and she read:


     "_Come down Colonel Crayfield ill._"



