

A day or two later when Philip, preparatory to his departure from
London, was choosing a fishing-rod in a well-known shop devoted to the
requirements of anglers, a little lady dressed in the height of fashion
rustled over to him from the farther end of the showroom where she had
been standing in company with an elderly, distinguished-looking man.

"Is it Mr. Flint?" she inquired gaily; and as he looked at her in
puzzled politeness a vague memory returned to him of someone trigged out
in sequins and tinsel, with a tambourine....

"You don't remember me? This time I'm not pretending. We really have met
before! My name is Matthews--Maud Verrall, you know, Stella Crayfield's
friend. How history repeats itself. Fancy my having to introduce myself
again, and all among fishing-rods and tackle and things, instead of in a
ball-room full of dressed-up idiots in India!"

"Why, of course--of course, how are you?" he said, gathering his wits
together, battling with an impulse to attack her on the spot as to
Stella's whereabouts, to ask her all about her. If anyone knew it would
be this wonderfully garbed little person, who now proceeded to beckon to
her deserted companion.

"Here's another old friend of Stella's, Sir George Rolt; you saw him at
that horrible ball, if you remember----"

The shop assistant stood by in patient resentment as the male customers
neglected their object, and the lady chattered of everything but
fishing-rods.

"I'm taking Sir George down with me to my old home in the country
to-morrow for a visit," she told Mr. Flint; "he and my husband are going
to fish from morning till night. So dull for me! but I shall have Stella
to talk to, and she will be thankful. She's at The Chestnuts, you know.
'Grandmamma and the Aunts'," she added with a mischievous "moue," then
she sighed "Poor Stella!" and she looked at him searchingly. "That was a
terrible business, wasn't it?"

Philip composed himself with an effort. "Her husband's death, you mean?
Yes, I suppose it was. I have heard nothing of her since it happened. I
hope she is well, have you seen her lately?"

"Quite lately; I've only been in town for a flying visit, just to get
clothes."

There was an awkward pause. Philip became aware that Sir George was
regarding him with particular attention. Was the man Stella's future
husband? The possibility filled him with helpless rage.

Mrs. Matthews coughed artificially and glanced from one man to the
other. "Sir George, dear," she said sweetly, "you'd better go back to
that kind gentleman who was giving you such good advice about
fishing-rods, or someone else will snap him up. I want to talk secrets
with Mr. Flint, if he's not in too great a hurry."

Sir George smiled and moved away compliantly. Mrs. Matthews apologised
to Philip's assistant. "I'm so sorry to interrupt, but I haven't seen
this friend of mine for such ages. Presently he will buy _heaps_ of
things, don't wait for him now if you are busy. I will see that he
doesn't run away!"

The young man succumbed to her blandishments, and Mrs. Matthews piloted
Philip to a corner of the shop where she annexed a couple of chairs.

"This is a funny place for a private conversation!" she remarked, "but
I'm not going to lose such a chance now I've got it. Fancy our meeting
like this; what a piece of luck! Now listen to me and answer my
questions." She scrutinised him closely. "You look struck all of a
heap!"

"I feel it," said Philip briefly.

"Why? because you want to hear news of Stella, or because you don't?"

"Because it's the one thing in the world I wish for," he answered, his
heart beating fast.

Her face cleared. "That's all right; one step forward! Now tell me--do
you know why Stella never answered your letter?"

"There could be only one reason. I told her in my letter that if I did
not hear from her I should understand." He fixed his eyes on a stuffed
salmon in a glass case, he could not bring himself to meet Mrs.
Matthews' inquisitive gaze.

"You silly fool!" said Stella's friend vigorously. "Couldn't you have
guessed that she must have had some desperate reason?"

"I thought----"

"You thought everything that was wrong, of course. Men always do. Sir
George Rolt thinks he is devoted to me at present, dear old thing, and
that I am equally 'gone' on him, but he's mistaken, though it's great
fun for us both while it lasts. Can you stand a shock, Mr. Philip
Flint?"

"I can stand anything," said Philip doggedly, "except----"

"I know what you were going to say--except to hear that Stella never
wants to see you again?"

"Exactly."

"Would it make any difference if you found her altered in another way?"

"How do you mean?" he asked, mystified.

Then Mrs. Matthews 'set to' as she would herself have expressed it, and
for the space of five minutes she talked breathlessly, uninterrupted by
Philip, who listened to her in greedy silence.

"There," she concluded at last. "Now, do you see?"

"Not altogether, I must confess. I don't see why Stella should have
concluded that her appearance would have made the smallest difference to
me, after my letter. It was very unfair to me!"

"Don't talk such trash. It was perfectly natural. She was too hideous
for words until she got home; we came home together, and I made her put
herself into the hands of an expert. Massage and treatment did wonders,
but, all the same, poor dear, she will never be beautiful again!"

"Good heavens, as if that would matter to me. Whatever she looks
like----" he paused, overcome by his feelings.

"Well, I will believe you, though one never knows! Anyway she's not so
bad, it's only one side of her face."

"Mrs. Matthews, for goodness' sake don't talk like this; I can't bear
it. Just tell me, once for all--does Stella care for me still?"

"Yes, darling, she does; and the best thing you can do is to come down
with me and Sir George to-morrow, fishing-rods and all, to The Court,
and make her tell you so herself. Will you?"

"Will I?" he scoffed ecstatically. "Mrs. Matthews, you are an angel!"

"Not yet," she assured him. "I don't mean to die young."

       *       *       *       *       *       *

Philip Flint walked up the short drive to The Chestnuts. The air was
filled with the peace and the scent of the summer's evening; and as he
viewed the old house with its little paved terrace, the lawn sloping
down to the stream, the cedar tree, the red wall of the kitchen garden,
he felt that it was all familiar to him.

An old lady was seated on the terrace flags--that would be "Grandmamma";
and an austere-looking female emerged from one of the French windows to
speak to the old lady--was that Aunt Augusta, or Aunt Ellen? His heart
warmed towards them. And as he hesitated, hardly daring to go forward,
he caught sight of a form stretched on a long chair beneath the cedar
tree.

Boldly he took a short cut through the shrubs. At the sound of his
footsteps she looked up, gave a little cry, hid her dear, maimed face in
her hands. Stella--his beloved, his star, his Star of India!




