
The story of the warning is now told. Judge for yourself if it was a true
warning or a false, when you hear what happened to me on my next birthday.

In the Summer time of the year, the Wheel of Fortune turned the right way
for me at last. I was smoking my pipe one day, near an old stone quarry at
the entrance to our village, when a carriage accident happened, which gave
a new turn, as it were, to my lot in life. It was an accident of the
commonest kind--not worth mentioning at any length. A lady driving
herself; a runaway horse; a cowardly man-servant in attendance, frightened
out of his wits; and the stone quarry too near to be agreeable--that is
what I saw, all in a few moments, between two whiffs of my pipe. I stopped
the horse at the edge of the quarry, and got myself a little hurt by the
shaft of the chaise. But that didn't matter. The lady declared I had saved
her life; and her husband, coming with her to our cottage the next day,
took me into his service then and there. The lady happened to be of a dark
complexion; and it may amuse you to hear that my aunt Chance instantly
pitched on that circumstance as a means of saving the credit of the cards.
Here was the promise of the Queen of Spades performed to the very letter,
by means of "a dark woman," just as my aunt had told me. "In the time to
come, Francis, beware o' pettin' yer ain blinded intairpretation on the
cairds. Ye're ower ready, I trow, to murmur under dispensation of
Proavidence that ye canna fathom--like the Eesraelites of auld. I'll say
nae mair to ye. Mebbe when the mony's powering into yer poakets, ye'll no
forget yer aunt Chance, left like a sparrow on the housetop, wi' a sma'
annuitee o' thratty punds a year."

I remained in my situation (at the West-end of London) until the Spring of
the New Year. About that time, my master's health failed. The doctors
ordered him away to foreign parts, and the establishment was broken up.
But the turn in my luck still held good. When I left my place, I left
it--thanks to the generosity of my kind master--with a yearly allowance
granted to me, in remembrance of the day when I had saved my mistress's
life. For the future, I could go back to service or not, as I pleased; my
little income was enough to support my mother and myself.

My master and mistress left England toward the end of February. Certain
matters of business to do for them detained me in London until the last
day of the month. I was only able to leave for our village by the evening
train, to keep my birthday with my mother as usual. It was bedtime when I
got to the cottage; and I was sorry to find that she was far from well. To
make matters worse, she had finished her bottle of medicine on the
previous day, and had omitted to get it replenished, as the doctor had
strictly directed. He dispensed his own medicines, and I offered to go and
knock him up. She refused to let me do this; and, after giving me my
supper, sent me away to my bed.

I fell asleep for a little, and woke again. My mother's bed-chamber was
next to mine. I heard my aunt Chance's heavy footsteps going to and fro in
the room, and, suspecting something wrong, knocked at the door. My
mother's pains had returned upon her; there was a serious necessity for
relieving her sufferings as speedily as possible, I put on my clothes, and
ran off, with the medicine bottle in my hand, to the other end of the
village, where the doctor lived. The church clock chimed the quarter to
two on my birthday just as I reached his house. One ring of the night bell
brought him to his bedroom window to speak to me. He told me to wait, and
he would let me in at the surgery door. I noticed, while I was waiting,
that the night was wonderfully fair and warm for the time of year. The old
stone quarry where the carriage accident had happened was within view. The
moon in the clear heavens lit it up almost as bright as day.

In a minute or two the doctor let me into the surgery. I closed the door,
noticing that he had left his room very lightly clad. He kindly pardoned
my mother's neglect of his directions, and set to work at once at
compounding the medicine. We were both intent on the bottle; he filling
it, and I holding the light--when we heard the surgery door suddenly
opened from the street.

