
I waited in the house till the town was astir for the day, and then I went
to consult a lawyer. In the confused state of my mind at the time, I had
one clear notion of what I meant to do: I was determined to sell my house
and leave the neighborhood. There were obstacles in the way which I had
not counted on. I was told I had creditors to satisfy before I could
leave--I, who had given my wife the money to pay my bills regularly every
week! Inquiry showed that she had embezzled every farthing of the money I
had intrusted to her. I had no choice but to pay over again.

Placed in this awkward position, my first duty was to set things right,
with the help of my lawyer. During my forced sojourn in the town I did two
foolish things. And, as a consequence that followed, I heard once more,
and heard for the last time, of my wife.

In the first place, having got possession of the knife, I was rash enough
to keep it in my pocket. In the second place, having something of
importance to say to my lawyer, at a late hour of the evening, I went to
his house after dark--alone and on foot. I got there safely enough.
Returning, I was seized on from behind by two men, dragged down a passage
and robbed--not only of the little money I had about me, but also of the
knife. It was the lawyer's opinion (as it was mine) that the thieves were
among the disreputable acquaintances formed by my wife, and that they had
attacked me at her instigation. To confirm this view I received a letter
the next day, without date or address, written in Alicia's hand. The first
line informed me that the knife was back again in her possession. The
second line reminded me of the day when I struck her. The third line
warned me that she would wash out the stain of that blow in my blood, and
repeated the words, "I shall do it with the knife!"

These things happened a year ago. The law laid hands on the men who had
robbed me; but from that time to this, the law has failed completely to
find a trace of my wife.

My story is told. When I had paid the creditors and paid the legal
expenses, I had barely five pounds left out of the sale of my house; and I
had the world to begin over again. Some months since--drifting here and
there--I found my way to Underbridge. The landlord of the inn had known
something of my father's family in times past. He gave me (all he had to
give) my food, and shelter in the yard. Except on market days, there is
nothing to do. In the coming winter the inn is to be shut up, and I shall
have to shift for myself. My old master would help me if I applied to
him--but I don't like to apply: he has done more for me already than I
deserve. Besides, in another year who knows but my troubles may all be at
an end? Next winter will bring me nigh to my next birthday, and my next
birthday may be the day of my death. Yes! it's true I sat up all last
night; and I heard two in the morning strike: and nothing happened. Still,
allowing for that, the time to come is a time I don't trust. My wife has
got the knife--my wife is looking for me. I am above superstition, mind! I
don't say I believe in dreams; I only say, Alicia Warlock is looking for
me. It is possible I may be wrong. It is possible I may be right. Who can
tell?




THE THIRD NARRATIVE




THE STORY CONTINUED BY PERCY FAIRBANK

