
Yet the laws were very stringent in other respects besides apparel. A
man was publicly whipped for killing a fowl on the Sabbath in New
England. In order to keep a tavern and sell rum, one had to be of good
moral character and possess property, which was a good thing. The names
of drunkards were posted up in the alehouses, and the keepers forbidden
to sell them liquor. No person under twenty years of age could use
tobacco in Connecticut without a physician's order, and no one was
allowed to use it more than once a day, and then not within ten miles of
any house. It was a common thing to see large picnic-parties going out
into the backwoods of Connecticut to smoke.

(Will the reader excuse me a moment while I light up a peculiarly black
and redolent pipe?)

[Illustration: LORD CORNWALLIS'S CONUNDRUM.]

Only the gentry were called Mr. and Mrs. This included the preacher and
his wife. A friend of mine who is one of the gentry of this century got
on the trail of his ancestry last spring, and traced them back to where
they were not allowed to be called Mr. and Mrs., and, fearing he would
fetch up in Scotland Yard if he kept on, he slowly unrolled the bottoms
of his trousers, got a job on the railroad, and since then his friends
are gradually returning to him. He is well pleased now, and looks
humbly gratified even if you call him a gent.

The Scriptures were literally interpreted, and the Old Testament was
read every morning, even if the ladies fainted.

The custom yet noticed sometimes in country churches and festive
gatherings of placing the males and females on opposite sides of the
room was originated not so much as a punishment to both, as to give the
men an opportunity to act together when the red brother felt ill at
ease.

I am glad the red brother does not molest us nowadays, and make us sit
apart that way. Keep away, red brother; remain on your reservation,
please, so that the pale-face may sit by the loved one and hold her
little soft hand during the sermon.

Church services meant business in those days. People brought their
dinners and had a general penitential gorge. Instrumental music was
proscribed, as per Amos fifth chapter and twenty-third verse, and the
length of prayer was measured by the physical endurance of the
performer.

The preacher often boiled his sermon down to four hours, and the sexton
up-ended the hourglass each hour. Boys who went to sleep in church were
sand-bagged, and grew up to be border murderers.

New York people were essentially Dutch. New York gets her Santa Claus,
her doughnuts, crullers, cookies, and many of her odors, from the Dutch.
The New York matron ran to fine linen and a polished door-knocker, while
the New England housewife spun linsey-woolsey and knit "yarn mittens"
for those she loved.

Philadelphia was the largest city in the United States, and was noted
for its cleanliness and generally sterling qualities of mind and heart,
its Sabbath trance and clean white door-steps.

The Southern Colonies were quite different from those of the North. In
place of thickly-settled towns there were large plantations with African
villages near the house of the owner. The proprietor was a sort of
country squire, living in considerable comfort for those days. He fed
and clothed everybody, black or white, who lived on the estate, and
waited patiently for the colored people to do his work and keep well, so
that they would be more valuable. The colored people were blessed with
children at a great rate, so that at this writing, though voteless, they
send a large number of members to Congress. This cheers the Southern
heart and partially recoups him for his chickens. (See Appendix.)

The South then, as now, cured immense quantities of tobacco, while the
North tried to cure those who used it.

Washington was a Virginian. He packed his own flour with his own hands,
and it was never inspected. People who knew him said that the only man
who ever tried to inspect Washington's flour was buried under a hill of
choice watermelons at Mount Vernon.

Along the James and Rappahannock the vast estates often passed from
father to son according to the law of entail, and such a thing as a poor
man "prior to the war" must have been unknown.

[Illustration: NOT RICH BEFORE THE WAR.]

Education, however, flourished more at the North, owing partly to the
fact that the people lived more in communities. Governor Berkeley of
Virginia was opposed to free schools from the start, and said, "I thank
God there are no free schools nor printing-presses here, and I hope we
shall not have them these hundred years." His prayer has been answered.



