
RECONSTRUCTION WITHOUT PAIN--ADMINISTRATIONS OF JOHNSON AND GRANT.


It was feared that the return of a million Federal soldiers to their
homes after the four years of war would make serious trouble in the
North, but they were very shortly adjusted to their new lives and
attending to the duties which peace imposed upon them.

The war of the Rebellion was disastrous to nearly every branch of trade,
but those who remained at home to write the war-songs of the North did
well. Some of these efforts were worthy, and, buoyed up by a general
feeling of robust patriotism, they floated on to success; but few have
stood the test of years and monotonous peace. The author of "Mother, I
am hollow to the ground" is just depositing his profits from its sale in
the picture given on next page. The second one, wearing the
cape-overcoat tragedy air, wrote "Who will be my laundress now?"

Andrew Johnson succeeded to Mr. Lincoln's seat, having acted before as
his vice.

A great review of the army, lasting twelve hours, was arranged to take
place in Washington, consisting of the armies of Grant and Sherman. It
was reviewed by the President and Cabinet; it extended over thirty miles
twenty men deep, and constituted about one-fifth of the Northern army at
the time peace was declared.

[Illustration: THE STAY-AT-HOMES WHO WROTE WAR-SONGS.]

President Johnson recognized the State governments existing in Virginia,
Tennessee, Arkansas, and Louisiana, but instituted provisional
governments for the other States of the defeated Confederacy, as it
seemed impossible otherwise to bring order out of the chaos which war
and financial distress had brought about. He authorized the assembly
also of loyal conventions to elect State and other officers, and
pardoned by proclamation everybody, with the exception of a certain
class of the late insurgents whom he pardoned personally.

On Christmas Day, 1868, a Universal Amnesty was declared. The Thirteenth
Amendment, abolishing slavery, became a part of the Constitution,
December 18, 1865, and the former masters found themselves still morally
responsible for these colored people, without the right to control them
or even the money with which to employ them.

The annual interest on the national debt at this time amounted to one
hundred and fifty million dollars. Yet the Treasury paid this, together
with the expenses of government, and reduced the debt seventy-one
million dollars before the volunteer army had been fully discharged in