
CLOSING CHRONICLES.


In 1876 the peaceful Sioux took an outing, having refused to go to their
reservation in accordance with the treaty made with the Great Father at
Washington, D. C., and regular troops were sent against them.

General Custer, with the 7th Regiment, led the advance, and General
Terry aimed for the rear of the children of the forest up the Big Horn.
Here, on the 25th of June, without assistance, and with characteristic
courage, General Custer attacked the enemy, sending Colonel Reno to fall
on the rear of the village.

Scarcely enough of Custer's own command with him at the time lived long
enough to tell the story of the battle. General Custer, his two
brothers, and his nephew were among the dead. Reno held his ground until
reinforced, but Custer's troops were exterminated.

It is said that the Sioux rose from the ground like bunch-grass and
swarmed up the little hill like a pest of grasshoppers, mowing down the
soldiers with the very newest and best weapons of warfare, and leaving
nothing at last but the robbed and mutilated bodies lying naked in the
desolate land of the Dakotah.

The Fenimore Cooper Indian is no doubt a brave and highly intellectual
person, educated abroad, refined and cultivated by foreign travel,
graceful in the grub dance or scalp walk-around, yet tender-hearted as a
girl, walking by night fifty-seven miles in a single evening to warn his
white friends of danger. The Indian introduced into literature was a
bronze Apollo who bathed almost constantly and only killed white people
who were unpleasant and coarse. He dressed in new and fresh buckskins,
with trimming of same, and his sable hair hung glossy and beautiful down
the coppery billows of muscles on his back.

The real Indian has the dead and unkempt hair of a busted buggy-cushion
filled with hen feathers. He lies, he steals, he assassinates, he
mutilates, he tortures. He needs Persian powder long before he needs the
theology which abler men cannot agree upon. We can, in fact, only retain
him as we do the buffalo, so long as he complies with the statutes. But
the red brother is on his way to join the cave-bear, the three-toed
horse, and the ichthyosaurus in the great fossil realm of the historic
past. Move on, maroon brother, move on!

[Illustration: ON HIS WAY TO JOIN THE CAVE-BEAR, THE THREE-TOED HORSE,
AND THE ICHTHYOSAURUS.]

Rutherford B. Hayes and William A. Wheeler were nominated in the summer
of 1876, and so close was the fight against Samuel J. Tilden and Thomas
A. Hendricks that friends of the latter to this day refer to the
selection of Hayes and Wheeler by a joint Electoral Commission to whom
the contested election was referred, as a fraud and larceny on the part
of the Republican party. It is not the part of an historian, who is
absolutely destitute of political principles, to pass judgment. Facts
have crept into this history, it is true, but no one could regret it
more than the author; yet there has been no bias or political prejudice
shown, other than that reflected from the historical sources whence
information was necessarily obtained.

Hayes was chosen, and gave the country an unruffled, unbiased
administration, devoid of frills, and absolutely free from the
appearance of hostility to any one. He was one of the most conciliatory
Presidents ever elected by Republican votes or counted in by a joint
Electoral Commission.

He withdrew all troops from the South, and in several Southern States
things wore a Democratic air at once.

In 1873 Congress demonetized silver, and quite a number of business-men
were demonetized at the same time; so in 1878 silver was made a legal
tender for all debts. As a result, in 1879 gold for the first time in
seventeen years sold at par.

Troubles arose in 1878 over the right to fish in the northeast waters,
and the treaty at Washington resulted in an award to Great Britain of
five million five hundred thousand dollars, with the understanding that
wasteful fishing should cease, and that as soon as either party got
enough for a mess he should go home, no matter how well the fish seemed
to be biting.

The right to regulate Chinese immigration was given by treaty at Pekin,
and ever since the Chinaman has entered our enclosures in some
mysterious way, made enough in a few years to live like a potentate in
China, and returned, leaving behind a pleasant memory and a chiffonnier
here and there throughout the country filled with scorched shirt-bosoms,
acid-eaten collars, and white vests with burglar-proof, ingrowing
pockets in them.

The next nominations for President and Vice-President were James A.
Garfield, of Ohio, and Chester A. Arthur, of New York, on the Republican
ticket, and Winfield S. Hancock, of Pennsylvania, and William H.
English, of Indiana, on the Democratic ticket. James B. Weaver was
connected with this campaign also. Who will tell us what he had to do
with it? Can no one tell us what James B. Weaver had to do with the
campaign of 1881? Very well; I will tell you what he had to do with the
campaign of 1881.

He was the Presidential candidate on the Greenback ticket, but it was
kept so quiet that I am not surprised to know that you did not hear
about it.

After the inauguration of Garfield the investigation and annulling of
star-route contracts fraudulently obtained were carried out, whereby two
million dollars' worth of these corrupt agreements were rendered null
and void.

On the morning of July 2, President Garfield was shot by a poor,
miserable, unbalanced, and abnormal growth whose name will not be
discovered even in the appendix of this work. He was tried, convicted,
and sent squealing into eternity.

The President lingered patiently for two months and a half, when he
died.

[Illustration: A PERSON JUMPING FROM IT IS NOT ALWAYS KILLED.]

After the accession of President Arthur, there occurred floods on the
lower Mississippi, whereby one hundred thousand people lost their homes.
The administration was not in any way to blame for this.

In 1883 the Brooklyn Bridge across East River was completed and ready
for jumping purposes. It was regarded as a great engineering success at
the time, but it is now admitted that it is not high enough. A person
jumping from it is not always killed.

The same year the Civil Service Bill became a law. It provides that
competitive examinations shall be made of certain applicants for office,
whereby mail-carriers must prove that they know how to teach school, and
guards in United States penitentiaries are required to describe how to
navigate a ship.

Possibly recent improvements have been made by which the curriculum is
more fitted to the crime, but in the early operations of the law the
janitor of a jail had to know what length shadow would be cast by a pole
18 feet 6-1/4 inches high on the third day of July at 11 o'clock 30 min.
and 20 sec. standing on a knoll 35 feet 8-1/8 inches high, provided 8
men in 9 days can erect such a pole working 8 hours per day.

In 1883 letter postage was reduced from three cents to two cents per
half-ounce, and in 1885 to two cents per ounce.

In 1884 Alaska was organized as a Territory, and after digging the snow
out of Sitka, so that the governor should not take cold in his system,
it was made the seat of government.

Chinese immigration in 1882 was forbidden for ten years, and in 1884 a
treaty with Mexico was made, a copy of which is on file in the State
Department, but not allowed to be loaned to the author for use in this
work.

Grover Cleveland and Thomas A. Hendricks were nominated and elected at
the end of President Arthur's term, running against James G. Blaine and
John A. Logan, the Republican candidates, also Benjamin F. Butler and A.