and William Daniel on the Prohibition ticket. St. John went home and
kept bees, so that he could have honey to eat on his Kansas locusts, and
Daniel swore he would never enter the performing cage of immoral
political wild beasts again while reason remained on her throne.

In 1886 a Presidential succession law was passed, whereby on the death
of the President and the Vice-President the order of succession shall be
the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of
War, the Attorney-General, the Postmaster-General, and the Secretaries
of the Navy and of the Interior. This gives the Secretary of Agriculture
an extremely remote and rarefied chance at the Presidency. Still, he
should be just as faithful to his trust as he would be if he were nearer
the throne.

May 4, 1886, occurred a terrible outbreak of Chicago Anarchists,
whereby seven policemen sent to preserve order were killed by the
bursting of an Anarchist's bomb. The Anarchists were tried and executed,
with the exception of Ling, who ate a dynamite capsule and passed into
rest having had his features, and especially his nose, blown in a swift
and earnest manner. Death resulted, and whiskers and beer-blossoms are
still found embedded in the stone walls of his cell. Those who attended
the funeral say that Ling from a scenic point of view was not a success.

Governor Altgeld, of Illinois, an amateur American, in the summer of
1893 pardoned two of the Anarchists who had escaped death by
imprisonment.

August 31, 1886, in Charleston, occurred several terrible earthquake
shocks, which seriously damaged the city and shocked and impaired the
nerves and health of hundreds of people.

The noted heroism and pluck of the people of Charleston were never shown
to greater advantage than on this occasion.

Mr. Cleveland was again nominated, but was defeated by General Benjamin
Harrison. Hon. James G. Blaine, of Maine, was made Secretary of State,
and Wm. Windom, a veteran financier, Secretary of the Treasury.
Secretary Windom's tragic death just as he had finished a most brilliant
address to the great capitalists of New York after their annual dinner
and discussion at Delmonico's is, and will ever remain, while life
lasts, a most dramatic picture in the author's memory.

Personally, the administration of President Harrison will be long
remembered for the number of deaths among the families of the Executive
and those of his Cabinet and friends.

Nebraska, the thirty-seventh State, was admitted March 1, 1867. The name
signifies "Water Valley." Colorado, the Centennial State, was the
thirty-eighth. She was admitted July 1, 1876. Six other States have been
since admitted when the political sign was right. Still, they have not
always stuck by the party admitting them to the Union. This is the kind
of ingratitude which sometimes leads to the reformation of politicians
supposed to have been dead in sin.

President Harrison's administration was a thoroughly upright and honest
one, so far as it was possible for it to be after his party had drifted
into the musty catacombs of security in office and the ship of state had
become covered with large and expensive barnacles.

As we go to press, his successor, Grover Cleveland, in the first year of
his second administration, is paying a high price for fleeting fame,
with the serious question of what to do with the relative coinage of
gold and silver, and the Democrats in Congress, for the first time in
the history of the world, are referring each other with hot breath and
flashing eye to the platform they adopted at the National Convention.

Heretofore among the politicians a platform, like that on the railway
cars, "is made for the purpose of helping the party to get aboard, but
not to ride on."

The Columbian Exposition and World's Fair at Chicago in the summer of
1893 eclipsed all former Exhibitions, costing more and showing greater
artistic taste, especially in its buildings, than anything preceding it.
Some gentle warfare resulted from a struggle over the question of
opening the "White City" on Sunday, and a great deal of bitterness was
shown by those who opposed the opening and who had for years favored the
Sunday closing of Niagara. A doubtful victory was obtained by the Sunday
openers, for so many of the exhibitors closed their departments that
visitors did not attend on Sunday in paying quantities.

Against a thousand odds and over a thousand obstacles, especially the
apprehension of Asiatic cholera and the actual sudden appearance of a
gigantic money panic, Chicago, heroic and victorious, carried out her
mighty plans and gave to the world an exhibition that won golden
opinions from her friends and stilled in dumb wonder the jealousy of her
enemies.

In the mean time, the author begs leave to thank his readers for the
rapt attention shown in perusing these earnest pages, and to apologize
for the tears of sympathy thoughtlessly wrung from eyes unused to weep,
by the graphic word-painting and fine education shown by the author.

It was not the intention of the writer to touch the fountain of tears
and create wash-outs everywhere, but sometimes tears do one good.

In closing, would it be out of place to say that the stringency of the
money market is most noticeable and most painful, and for that reason
would it be too much trouble for the owner of this book to refuse to
loan it, thereby encouraging its sale and contributing to the comfort of
a deserving young man?

THE END.

       *       *       *       *       *

APPENDIX.


The idea of an appendix to this work was suggested by a relative, who
promised to prepare it, but who has been detained now for over a year in
one of the public buildings of Colorado on the trumped-up charge of
horse-stealing. The very fact that he was not at once hanged shows that
the charge was not fully sustained, and that the horse was very likely
of little value.
                                                        THE AUTHOR.




